{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Courier New;}}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\lang1033\f0\fs20 THE HOLCROFT COVENANT\par
\par
BY\par
\par
ROBERT LUDLUM\par
\par
 Bantam Books by Robert Ludlum\par
 Ask your bookseller for the books you have missed\par
\par
 TBE BOURNE IDENTITY\par
 THE CHANCELLOR MANUSCRIPT\par
 THE HOLCROFT COVENANT\par
 THE MATARESE CIRCLE\par
 THE OSTERMAN WEEKEND\par
 THE ROAD TO GANDOLFO\par
 THE SCARLATTI INHERITANCE\par
THE\par
HOLCROFT\par
COVENANT\par
 FO-BERT, LUDLUM\par
\par
0%, *\par
BANTAM BOOKS\par
70RON70 o NEW YORK * LONDON - SYDNEY o AUCKLAND\par
                                      i\par
\par
This low-priced Bantam Book\par
has been completely reset in a type face\par
designed for easy-mading, and was printed\par
from new plates. It contains the complete\par
sext of the original hard-cover edition.\par
NOT ONE WORD HAS SEEN ObCrrrED.\par
\par
THE EPOLCIROFT COVENANT\par
A Bantam Book / published by arrangement with\par
The Robertmary Company\par
\par
PRIN77NG HISTORY\par
Richard Marek edition published March 1978\par
       9 printings through August 1978\par
       Bantam edition / February 1979\par
  2ndprinting . . . . .      February1979 6th priming August 1980\par
 Ord printing   February 19797th printingDecember 1980\par
 4th printing      March 19798th printing February 1981\par
  Ith printing. . . . .      March 19751 9th printing April 1981\par
       10th printbig ... November 1981\par
\par
AN rights reserved.\par
Copyright 1978 by Robert Ludlum.\par
Cover art copyrisr2t iD 1979 by Bantam Books, Inc.\par
This book may not be reproduced in whole or in part, by\par
mimeograph or any other means, without permission.\par
For Information address., Richard Marek PublisheM\par
200 Madison Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10016.\par
\par
         ISBN 0-553-2078"\par
\par
 Published simultaneously in the United States and Canada\par
\par
Bantam Books are published by Banton Books, Inc. Its trade\par
mark, consisting of the words "Banton Bookel and the par\par
trayal of a rmcpster, is Registered in U.S. Patent and Trademark\par
Office and in other countries. Marca Registrada. Banton\par
Books, Inc., 666 Fifth Avenue, New York. New York 10103.\par
\par
    PIDOW IN THE UNITED STATES OF AICMCA\par
\par
       19 18 17 16 15\par
 For Michael and LauraA lovely, talented, wonderful couple.\par
   THE\par
 HOLCROFT\par
 COVENANT\par
\par
 I\par
           Prologue\par
\par
 MARCH 1945\par
\par
  The hull of the submarine was lashed to the huge pilings, a behemoth\par
  strapped in silhouette, the sweeping lines of its bow arcing into the light\par
  of the North Sea dawn.\par
  The base was on the island of Scharh5rn, in the Helgoland Bight, several\par
  miles from the German mainland and the mouth of the Elbe River. It was a\par
  refueling station never detected by Allied Intelligence and, in the cause\par
  of security, little known among the strategists of the German High Comniand\par
  itself. The undersea marauders came and went in darkness, emerging and\par
  submerging within several hundred feet of the moorings. They were Neptunes\par
  assassins, come home to rest or going forth to press their attacks.\par
  On this particular dawn, however, the submarine lashed to the dock was\par
  doing neither. For it, the war was over, its assignment intrinsic to the\par
  origins of another war.\par
  Two men stood in the well of the conning tower, one in the uniform of a\par
  commanding officer of the German Navy, the other a tall civilian in a long\par
  dark overcoat-the collar turned up to ward off the North Sea winds--yet\par
  hatless, as if to defy the North Sea winter. Both looked down at the long\par
  line of passengers who slowly made their way toward the gangplank\par
  amidships. As each passenger reached the plank, a name was checked off\par
  against a list, and then he or she was led--or carried -aboard a submarine.\par
  A few walked by themselves, but they were the exceptions. They were the\par
  oldest, some having reached their twelfth or thirteenth birthdays.\par
  The rest were children. Infants in the arms of sternfaced army nurses, who\par
  surrendered their charges to a\par
 2   THE HOLCROFT COVENANT\par
\par
 unit of navy doctors at the plank; preschoolers, and early graders clutching\par
 identical traveling kits and one another's hands, peering up at the strange\par
 black vessel that was to be their home for weeks to come.\par
  "Incredible," said theofficer. "Simply incredible."\par
  "It's the beginning," replied the man in the overcoat, his sharp,- angular\par
  features rigid. "Word comes from everywhere. From the ports and the\par
  mountain passes, from the remaining airfields all over the Reich. They go\par
  out by the thousands. To every part of the world. And people are waiting\par
  for them. Everywhere."\par
  "An extraordinary accomplishmenV' said the officer, shaking his head in\par
  awe.\par
  *This is only one part of the strategy. The entire operation is\par
  extraordinary."\par
  "It's an honor to have you here."\par
  "I wanted to be. This is the last shipment." The tall civilian kept his\par
  eyes on the dock below. "The Third Reich is dying. These am its rebirth.\par
  These are the Fourth Reich. Unencumbered by mediocrity and corruption.\par
  These are the Sonnenkinder. All over the world."\par
  "The children . . ."\par
  "Me Children of the Damned," said the tall man, interrupting. 'They are the\par
  Children of the Damned, as millions will be. But none will be like these.\par
  And these will be everywhere.90\par
 JANUARY 197-\par
 "A ttentionl Le train de sept heures a destination de Zurich partira du qual\par
 numiro douze."\par
  The tall American in the dark-blue raincoat glanced up at the -cavernous\par
  dome of the Geneva railway station, trying to Jocate the hidden speakers.\par
  Ile expression on his sharp, angular face was quizzical; the announcement\par
  was in French, a language he spoke but little and understood less.\par
  Nevertheless, he was able to distinguish the word Zurich, it was his\par
  signal. He brushed aside the fightbrown hair that fell with irritating\par
  regularity over his forehead and started for the north end of the station.\par
  The crowds were heavy. Bodies rushed past the American in all directions,\par
  hurrying to the gates to begin their journeys to scores of different\par
  destinations. None seemed to pay attention to the harsh announcements that\par
  echoed throughout the upper chambers in a continuous metallic monotone. The\par
  travelers in Geneva's Bahnhof knew where they were going. It was the end\par
  of the week; the new mountain snows had fallen and the air outside was\par
  crisp and chilling. There were places to go, schedules to keep, and people\par
  to see; time wasted was time stolen. Everyone hurried.\par
  The American hurried, too, for he also had a schedule to keep and a person\par
  to see. He had learned before the announcement that the train for Zurich\par
  would leave from track twelve. According to the plan, he was to walk down\par
  the ramp to the platform, count seven cars from the rear, and board at the\par
  first entrance. Inside, he was to count again, this time five compartments,\par
  and knock twice on the EM door. If everything was in order, he would be\par
  admitted by a director of La Grande Banque do Genbve,\par
                3\par
 4   THE HOLCROFT COVENANT\par
\par
 signifying the culmination of twelve weeks of preparations. Preparations\par
 that included purposely obscured cablegrams, transatlantic calls made and\par
 received on telephones the Swiss banker had determined were sterile, and a\par
 total commitment to secrecy.\par
  He did not know what the director of La Grande Banque de Gen6ve had to say\par
  to him, but he thought he knew why the precautions were deemed necessary.\par
  The American's name was Noel Holcroft, but Holcroft had not been his name\par
  at birth. He was born in Berlin in the summer of 1939, and the name on the\par
  hospital registry was "Clausen." His father was Heinrich Clausen, master\par
  strategist of the Third Reich, the financial magician who put together the\par
  coalition of disparate economic forces that insured the supremacy of Adolf\par
  Hitler.\par
  Heinrich Clausen won the country but lost a wffe. Althene Clausen was an\par
  American; more to the point, she was a headstrong woman with her own\par
  standards of ethics and morality. She had deduced that the National So-\par
  cialists possessed neither; they were a collection of paranoiacs, led by\par
  a maniac, and supported by financiers interested solely in profits.\par
  Althene Clausen gave her husband an ultimatum on a warm afternoon in\par
  August: Withdraw. Stand against the paranoiacs and the maniac before it was\par
  too late. In disbelief, the Nazi listened and laughed and dismissed his\par
  wife's ultimatum as the foolish ravings of a new mother. Or perhaps the\par
  warped judgment of a woman brought up in a weak, discredited system that\par
  would soon march to the step of the New Order. Or be crushed under its booL\par
  That night the new mother packed herself . and the new child and took one\par
  of the last planes to London, the first leg on her journey back to New\par
  York. A week later the Blitzkrieg was executed against Poland; the Thousand\par
  Year Reich had begun its own journey, one that would last some fifteen\par
  hundred days from the first sound of gunfire.\par
  Holcroft walked through the gate, down the ramp, and on to the long\par
  concrete platform. Four, five, six, seven.... The seventh car had a small\par
  blue circle stenciled beneath the window to the left of the open door. It\par
  was the symbol of accommodations superior to those in first class: enlarged\par
  compartments properly outfitted for confer-\par
           THE HoLCROFT coVENANT   5\par
\par
 ences in transit or clandestine meetings of a more personal nature. Privacy\par
 was guaranteed; once the train was moving, the doors at either end of the\par
 car were manned by armed railway guards.\par
  Holcroft entered and turned left into the corridor. He walked past\par
  successive closed doors until he reached the fifth. He knocked twice.\par
  "Herr Holcroft?" The voice behind the wood panel was firm but quiet, and\par
  although the two words were meant as a question, the voice was not\par
  questioning. It made a statement\par
  "Herr Manfredir, said Noel in reply, suddenly aware that an eye was\par
  peering at him through the pinpoint viewer in the -center of the door. It\par
  was an eerie feeling, diminished by the comic effect. He smiled to himself\par
  and wondered if Herr Manfredi would look like the sinister Conrad Veidt in\par
  one of those 1930s English films.\par
  There were two clicks of a lock, followed by the sound of a sliding bolt.\par
  The door swung back and the image of Conrad Veidt vanished. Ernst Manfredi\par
  was a short, rotund man in his middle to late sixties. He was co.npletely\par
  bald, with a pleasant, gentle face; but the wide blue eyes, magnified\par
  beyond the metal-framed glasses, were cold. Very light blue and very cold.\par
  "Come in, Herr Holcroft," said Manfredi, smiling. Then his expression\par
  changed abruptly; the smile disappeared. "Do forgive me. I should say\par
  Mister Holcroft. The Herr may be offensive to you. My apologies."\par
  "None necessary," replied Noel, stepping into the well-appointed\par
  compartment. There was a table, two chairs, no bed in evidence. The walls\par
  were wood-paneled; dark-red velvet curtains covered the windows, muffling\par
  the sounds of the figures rushing by outside. On the table was a small\par
  lamp with a fringed shade.\par
  "We have about twenty-five minutes before departure," the banker said. "It\par
  should be adequate. And don't be concerned-well be given ample warning.\par
  The train won't start until you've disembarked. You'll not have to travel\par
  to Zurich."\par
  1'rve never been there."\par
  "I trust that will be changed," said the banker enigmatically, gesturing\par
  for Holcroft to sit opposite him at the table.\par
 6    71M HOLCROFT COVEtUM . '\par
\par
  "I wouldn't count on it." Noel sat down, unbuttoning his raincoat but not\par
  removing it\par
  "I'm sorry, that was presumptuous of me." Manfredi took his seat and\par
  leaned back in the chair. "I Must apologize once again. I'll need your\par
  identification. Your passport, please.And your international driver's\par
  license. Als% whatever documents you have on your person that describe\par
  physical markings, vaccinations, that sort of thing."\par
  Holcroft felt a rush of anger. The inconvenience to his life aside, he\par
  disliked the bankees patronizing attitude. "Why should I? You know who I\par
  am. You wouldn't have opened that door if you didn't. You probably have\par
  more photographs, more information on me, than the State Department."\par
  "Indulge an old man, sir," said the banker, shrugging in self-deprecation,\par
  his charm on display. "It will be made clear to you."\par
  Reluctantly, Noel reached into his jacket pocket and withdrew the. leather\par
  case that contained his passport, health certificate, international\par
  license, and two A.I.A. letters that stated his qualifications as an\par
  architect. He handed the case to Manfredi. "Ifs all there. Help yourself."\par
  ~\par
  With seemingly greater reluctance, the banker opened the case. "I feel as\par
  though rm prying, but I think ... 99\par
  "You should," interrupted Holcroft. "I didn't ask for this meeting.\par
  Frankly, it comes at a very inconvenient time. I want to get back to New\par
  York as soon as possible."\par
  "Yes. Yes, I understand," said the Swiss quietly, perusing the documents.\par
  "Ten me, what was the first architectural commission you undertook outside\par
  the United States?"\par
  Noel suppressed his irritation. He had come this far; there was no point\par
  in refusing to answer. "Mexico," he replied. "For the Alvarez hotel chain,\par
  north of Puerto Vallarta."\par
  "Me second?"\par
  "Costa Rica. For the government. A postal complex in 1973."\par
  "What was the gross income of your firm in New York last year? Without\par
  adjustments."\par
  "None of your damned business."\par
         THE HOLCROFT COVENANT   7\par
\par
    assure you, we know."\par
  Holcroft shook his head in angry resignation. "A hundred and seventy-three\par
  thousand dollars and change."\par
  "Considering office rental, salaries, equipment and expenses, that's not\par
  an altogether impressive figure, is it?" asked Manfredi, his eyes still on\par
  the papers in his hands.\par
  . "It's my own company and the staff is small. I have no partners, no wife,\par
  no heavy debts. It could be worse."\par
  "It could be better," said the banker, looking up at Holcroft. 'Tspecially\par
  for one so talented."\par
   "It could be better."\par
  "Yes, I thought as much," continued the Swiss, putting the various papers\par
  back in the leather case and handing it to Noel. He leaned forward. "Do you\par
  know who your father was?"\par
  "I know who my father is. Legally, he's Richard Holcroft, of New York, my\par
  mother's husband. He's very much alive."\par
  "And retired," completed Manfredi. "A fellow banker, but hardly a banker\par
  in the Swiss tradition."\par
   "He was respected. Is respected."\par
  "For his family's money or for his professional acumen?"\par
  "Both, I'd say. I love him. If you have reservations, keep them to\par
  yourself."\par
  "You're very loyal; that's a quality I admire. Holcroft came along when\par
  your mother-an incredible woman, incidentally-was most despondent. But we\par
  split definitions. Holcroft is once removed. I referred to your natural fa-\par
  ther."\par
   "Obviously."\par
  'rhirty years ago, Heinrich Clausen made certain -arrangements. He traveled\par
  frequently between Berlin, Zurich, and Geneva, beyond official scrutiny,\par
  of course. A document was prepared that we as"-Manfredi paused and\par
  smiled--". . . is biased neutrals could not oppose. Attached to the\par
  document is a letter, written by Clausen in April of 1945. It is addressed\par
  to you. His son." The banker reached for a thick manila envelope on the\par
  table.\par
  "Just a minute," said Noel. "Did those certain arrangements concern money?"\par
  66yes."\par
  -rm not interested. Give it to charity. He owed it"\par
 8   THE HOLCROPT COVENANT\par
\par
  "You may not feel that way when you've heard the amount."\par
  "What is it?"\par
  "Seven hundred and eighty million dollars."\par
               2\par
\par
 Holcroft stared at the banker In disbelief; the blood drained from his head.\par
 Outside, the sounds of the huge station were a cacophony of muted chords,\par
 barely penetrating the thick walls of the car.\par
  "Don't try to absorb it all at once," said Manfredi, placing the letter to\par
  one side. "There are conditions, none of them, incidentally, offensive. At\par
  least, none weW aware Of.99\par
  "Conditions?Hoicroft knew he could hardly be heard; he tried to find his\par
  voice. 'TAW conditionsr'\par
  "They're spelled out very clearly. These vast sums are to be channeled\par
  into a great good for people everywhere. And, of course, there are certain\par
  benefits to yourSON personally.99\par
  "What do you mean there's nothing offensive that you're . . . 'aware of r,\par
  The bankees magnified eyes blinked behind his glasses; he looked away\par
  briefly, his expression troubled. He reached into kis brown leather\par
  briefcase, which lay at the comer of the table, and pulled out a long,\par
  thin envelope witkcurious markings on the back side; they were a series of\par
  four circles and appeared to be four dark coins affixed to the border of\par
  the flap.\par
  Manfredi held the envelope across the table, under the light. The dark\par
  circles were not coins but waxed seals. Ali were intact.\par
  "Following the instructions given to us thirty years ago, this\par
  envelope--unlike your father's letter here-was not to be opened by\par
  directors in Geneva. It is separate from the document we prepared, and to\par
  the best of our knowledge, Clausen was never aware of it. His own words to\par
  you would tend to confirm thaL It was brought to us within hours after the\par
  courier delivered your\par
               9\par
 10  THE HOLCROFT COVENANT\par
\par
 father's letter, which was to be our final communication from Berlin."\par
  -what is itr\par
  "We don't know. We were told it was written by several men aware of your\par
  father's activities. Who believed in his cause with great fervor; who\par
  considered him in many ways a true martyr of Germany. We were instructed\par
  to give it to you with the seals unbroken. You were to read it before you\par
  saw your fathees letter." Manfredi turned the envelope over. There was\par
  writing on the front side. The words were in German and written by hand.\par
  "You are to sign below, so to state that you received it in the proper\par
  condition."\par
  Noel took the envelope and read the words he could not understand.\par
\par
   DIESER BRIEF IST MIT UNGEBROCHENEM SIEGEL\par
   EMPFANGEN WORDEN. NEUAUFBAU ODER TOD.\par
\par
  "What does it say?"\par
  "That you've examined the seals and are satisfied."\par
  "How can I be sure?"\par
  "Young man, you're talking with a director of La Grande Banque de Gen~ve."\par
  The Swiss did not raise his voice but the rebuke was clear. "You have my\par
  word. And, in any event, what difference does it make?"\par
  None, reasoned Holcroft, yet the obvious question bothered him. "If I sign\par
  the envelope, what do you do with it?"\par
  Manfredi was silent for several moments, as if deciding whether or not to\par
  answer. He removed his glasses, took a silk handkerchief from his breast\par
  pocket, and cleaned them. Finally he replied. 'That is privileged in-\par
  formation... ."\par
  "SoYs my signature," interrupted Noel. "Privileged, that is."\par
  "Let me finish," protested the banker, putting back his glasses. "I was\par
  about to say it was privileged information that can't possibly be relevant\par
  any longer. Not after so many years. The envelope is to be sent to a\par
  post-office box in Sesimbra, Portugal. It is south of Lisbon, on the Cape\par
  of Espichel."\par
  "Why isn't It relevantr\par
  Manfredi held up the palms of his hands. '01be post-         THE HOLCROFT COVENANT  11\par
\par
 office box no longer exists. The envelope will find its way to a dead-letter\par
 office and eventually be returned to It\par
 US.,\par
  "You're sure?"\par
  "I believe it, yes."\par
  Noel reached into his pocket for his pen, turning the envelope over to look\par
  once again at the waxed seals. They bad not been tampered with; and,\par
  thought Holcroft, what difference did it make? He placed the envelope in\par
  front of him and signed his name.\par
  Manfredi held up his hand. "You understand, whatever is contained in that\par
  envelope can have no bearing on our participation in the document prepared\par
  by La Grande Banque de Gen6ve. We were not consulted; nor were we apprised\par
  of the contents."\par
  "You sound worried. I thought you said it didn't make any difference. It\par
  was too long ago."\par
  "Fanatics always worry me, Mr. Holcroft. Time and consequence cannot alter\par
  that judgment. It's a bankees caution."\par
  Noel began cracking the wax; it had hardened over the years and took\par
  considerable force before it fell away. He'tore the flap open, removed the\par
  single page, and unfolded it.\par
  The paper was brittle with age; the white had turned to a pale brownish\par
  yellow. The writing was in English, the letters printed in an odd block\par
  lettering that was Germanic in style. The ink was faded but legible.\par
  Holcroft looked at the bottom of the page for a signature. There was none.\par
  He started reading.\par
  The message was macabre, born in desperation thirty years ago. It was as\par
  though unbalanced men had sat in a darkened room, studying shadows on the\par
  wall for signs of the future, studying a man and a life not yet formed.\par
\par
    FROM THIS MOMENT ON THE SON OF HEINRICH CLAUSEN IS TO BE TESTED. THERE\par
    ARE THOSE\par
  WHO MAY LEARN OF THE WORK IN GENEVA AND\par
  WHO WILL TRY TO STOP HIM, WHOSE ONLY\par
  PURPOSE IN LIFE WILL BE TO KILL HIM, THUS\par
  DESTROYING THE DREAM CONCEWED BY THE\par
  GIANT THAT WAS HIS FATHER.\par
    THIS MUST NOT HAPPENi FOR WE WERE BE- 12  THE HOLCROPT COVENANT\par
\par
  TRAYED-ALL OF US-AND THE WORLD MUST\par
  KNOW WHAT WE REALLY WERE, NOT WHAT THE BETRAYERS SHOWED US TO BE, FOR THOSE\par
  WERE THE PORTRAITS OF TRAITORS. NOT U& AND PARTICULARLY NOT HEINRICH\par
  CLAUSEN.\par
    WE ARE THE SURVIVORS OF WOLFSSCHANZE. WE\par
  SEEK THE CLEANSING OF OUR NAMES, THE RESTORATION OF THE HONOR THAT WAS\par
  STOLEN FROM US.\par
    THERE FORE THE MEN OF WOLFSSCHANZE WILL\par
  PROTECT THE SON FOR AS LONG AS THE SON PURSUES THE FATHER'S DREAM AND\par
  RETURNS OUR HONOR TO US. BUT SHOULD THE SON ABANDON THE DREAM, BETRAY THE\par
  FATHER, AND WITHHOLD OUR HONOR, HE WELL HAVE NO LIFE. HE WILL WITNESS THE\par
  ANGUISH OF LOVED ONES, OF FAMILY, CHILDREN, FRIENDS. NO ONE WILL BE SPARED.\par
    NONE MUST INTERFERE. GIVE US OUR HON-\par
  OR. IT IS OUR RIGHT AND WE DEMAND IT.\par
\par
  Noel shoved the chair back and stood up. "What the hell is this?"\par
  "I've no idea," replied Manfredi quietly, his voice calm but- his Jarge,\par
  cold blue eyes conveying his alarm. "I told you we were not apprised. . .\par
  ."\par
  "Well, get apprisedl" shouted Holcroft. "Read itt Who were these clowns?\par
  Certifiable lunatics?"\par
  The banker began reading. Without looking up, he answered softly. "First\par
  cousins to lunatics. Men who'd lost hope.,,\par
  "What's Wollsschanze? What does it meanr\par
  "It was the name of Hitler's staff headquarters in East Prussia, where the\par
  attempt to assassinate him took place. It was a conspiracy of the generals:\par
  Von Stauffenberg, Kluge, 118pner-they were all implicated. All shot Rommel\par
  took his own life."\par
  Holcroft stared at the paper in Manfredi's hands. "You mean it was written\par
  thirty years ago by people like thatr\par
  The banker nodded, his eyes narrowed in astonishment. "Yes, but it's not\par
  the language one might have expected of them. This is nothing short of a\par
  threat; it's un-\par
           THE HOLCROPT COVENANT  13\par
\par
 reasonable. Those men were not unreasonable. On the other hand, the times\par
 were unreasonable. Decent men, brave men, were stretched beyond the\par
 parameters of sanity. They were living through a hell none of us can picture\par
 today."\par
  "Decent men?" asked Noel incredulously.\par
  "Have you any idea what it meant to be a part of the Wolfsschanze\par
  conspiracy? A bloodbath followed, thousands massacred everywhere, the vast\par
  majority never having heard of Woffsschanze. it was yet another final\par
  solution, an excuse to still all dissent throughout Germany. What began as\par
  an act to rid the world of a madman ended in a holocaust all its own. The\par
  survivors of Wolfsschanze saw that happen."\par
  "Those survivors," replied Holcroft, "followed that madman for a long\par
  time."\par
  "You must understand. And you will. These were desperate men. They were\par
  caught in a trap, and for them it was cataclysmic. A world they had helped\par
  create was revealed not to be the world they envisioned. Horrors they\par
  never dreamed of were uncovered, yet they couldn't avoid their\par
  responsibility for them. They were appalled at what they saw but couldn't\par
  deny the roles they played."\par
  'qbe well-intentioned Nazi," said Noel. "I've heard of that elusive\par
  breed."\par
  "One would have to go back in history, to the economic disasters, to the\par
  Versailles Treaty, the Pact of Locarno, the Bolshevik encroachments-to a\par
  dozen different forces-to understand."\par
  "I understand what I just read," Holcroft said. "Your poor misunderstood\par
  storm troopers didn't hesitate to threaten someone they couldn't knowl 'He\par
  will have no life . . . no one spared ... family, friends, childree That\par
  spells out murder. Don't talk to me about well-intentioned killers."\par
  "They're the words of old, sick, desperate men. They have no meaning now.\par
  It was their way of expressing their own anguish, of seeking atonement.\par
  They're gone. Leave them in peace. Read your father's letter. . ~"\par
  "He's not my fatherl" interrupted Noel.\par
  "Read Heinrich Clausen's letter. Things will be clearer. Read it. We have\par
  several items to discuss and there isn't much time."\par
 14   THE HOLCROPT COVENAW\par
\par
  A man in a brown tweed overcoat and dark Tirolean bat stood by a pillar\par
  across from the seventh car. At first glance, there was nothing\par
  particularly distinguishing about him, except perhaps his eyebrows. They\par
  were thick, a mixture of black and light-gray hair that produced the effect\par
  of salt-and-pepper archways in the upper regions of a forgettable face.\par
  At first glance. Yet if one looked closer, one could see the blunted but\par
  not unrefined features of a very determined man. In spite of the pockets\par
  of wind that blew in gusts through the platform, he did not blink. His con-\par
  centration on the seventtk car was absolute.\par
  I The American would come out of that doorway, thought the man by the\par
  pillar, a much different person from the American who went in. During the\par
  past few minutes his fife had been changed in ways few men in this world\par
  would ever experience. Yet it was only the beginning; the journey he was\par
  about to embark on was beyond anything of which the present-day world could\par
  conceive. So it was important to observe his initial reaction. More than\par
  important. Vital.-\par
  "Attentiont Le train de sept heures. .\par
  The final announcement came over the speakers. Simultaneously, a train from\par
  Lausanne was arriving on the adjacent track. In moments the platform would\par
  be jammed with tourists Rocking into Geneva for the weekend, the way\par
  Midlanders scrambled into Charing Cross for a brief fling in London,\par
  thought the man by the pillar.\par
  The train from Lausanne came to a stop. The passenger cars disgorged; the\par
  platform was again packed with bodies.\par
  The figure of the tall American was suddenly in the vestibule of car seven.\par
  He was blocked at the doorway by a porter carrying someone's luggage. It\par
  was an irritating moment that might have provoked an argument under normal\par
  circumstances. But the circumstances were not normal for Holcroft. He\par
  expressed no annoyance; his face was set, unresponsive to the moment, his\par
  eyes aware of the physical confusion but not concerned with it. There was\par
  an air of detachment about him; he was in the grips of lingering\par
  astonishment. This was emphasized by the way ke clutched the thick manila\par
  envelope between his arm\par
         THE HoLcROFT COVENANT  15\par
\par
 and his chest, his band curved around the edge, his fingers pressed into the\par
 paper with such force they formed a fist.\par
  It was the cause of his consternation, this document prepared a lifetime\par
  ago. it was the miracle they bad waited for, lived for-the man by the\par
  pillar and those who had gone before him. More than thirty years of an-\par
  ticipation. And now it had surfaced at lasti.\par
  The journey had begun\par
  Holcroft entered the flow of human traffic toward the ramp that led up to\par
  the gate. Although jostled by those around him, he was oblivious of the\par
  crowds, his eyes absently directed ahead. At nothing.\par
  Suddenly, the man by the pillar was alarmed. Years of training had taught\par
  him to look for the unexpected, the infinitesimal break in a normal\par
  pattern. He saw that break now. Two men, their faces unlike any around\par
  them, joyless, without curiosity or expectation, filled only with hostile\par
  intent.\par
  They were surging through the crowds, one man slightly ahead of the other.\par
  Their eyes were on the American; they were after himl The man in front had\par
  his right hand in his pocket. The man behind had his left hand concealed\par
  across his chest, beneath his unbuttoned overcoat. The hidden hands gripped\par
  weaponst The man by the pillar was convinced of that.\par
  He sprang away from the concrete column and crashed his way into the crowd.\par
  There were no seconds to be lost. The two men were gaining on Holcroft.\par
  They were after the envelopel It was the only possible explanation. And if\par
  that were the case, it meant that word of the miracle had leaked out of\par
  Geneval The document inside that envelope was priceless, beyond value.\par
  Beside it, the American's fife was of such inconsequence that no thought\par
  would be expended taking that life. The men closing in on Holcroft would\par
  kill him for the envelope ndndlessly, as if removing a disagreeable insect\par
  from a bar of gold. And that was mindless I What they did not know was that\par
  without the son of Heinrich Clausen the miracle would not happenl\par
  They were within yards of him nowl The man with the black-and-white\par
  eyebrows lunged forward through the mass of tourists like a possessed\par
  animal. He crashed into people and luggage, throwing aside everything and\par
  every-\par
   x6  THE HOLCROFT COVENANT\par
\par
 one in his path. When he was within feet of the killer whose hand was\par
 concealed under his overcoat, he thrust his own hand into his pocket,\par
 clutching the gun inside, and screamed directly at the assailant:\par
  "Du suchst Clausens Sohnl Das Genfe Dokumentl"\par
  1he killer was partially up the ramp, separated from the American by only\par
  a few people. He heard the words roared at him by a stranger and spun\par
  around, his eyes wide in shock\par
  The crowd pressed rapidly up the ramp, skirting the two obvious-\par
  antagonists. Attacker and protector were mi\par
 their Own miniature arena, facing each other. The observer squeezed the\par
 trigger of the gun in his pocket, then squeezed it again. Ile spits could\par
 barely be heard as the fabric exploded. Two bullets entered the body of Hol-\par
 croft's would-be assailant, one in the lower stomach, the other far above,\par
 in the neck. 'Me first caused the man to convulse forward; the second\par
 snapped his head back, the throat torn open.\par
  Blood burst from the neck with such force that it splattered surrounding\par
  faces, and the clothes and suitcases belonging to those faces. It cascaded\par
  downward, forming small pools and rivulets on the ramp. Screams of horror\par
  filled the walkway.\par
  Ile observer-protector felt a hand gripping his shoulder, digging into his\par
  flesh. He spun; the second attacker was on him, but there was no gun in his\par
  hand. Instead, the blade of a hunting knife came toward him.\par
  The man was an amateur, thought the observer, as his reactions-4instincts\par
  born of years of training-came instantly into play. He stepped sideways\par
  quickly--a bullfighter avoiding the horns-and clamped his left hand above\par
  his assailant's wrist. He pulled his right hand from his pocket and gripped\par
  the fingers wrapped around the knife. He snapped the wrist downward, vising\par
  the fingers around the handle, tearing the cartilage of the attacker's\par
  hand, forcing the blade inward. He plunged it into the soft flesh of the\par
  stomach and ripped the sharp steel diagonally up into the rib cage,\par
  severing the arteries of the hearL The man's face contorted; a terrible\par
  scream was begun, cut off by death.\par
  The pandemonium had escalated into uncontrollable chaos; the screaming\par
  increased. Ile profusion of blood in the center of the rushing, colliding\par
  bodies fueled the\par
         THE HOLCROFT COVENANT  17\par
\par
 hysterm The observer protector knew precisely what to do. He threw up his\par
 hands in frightened consternation, in sudden, total revulsion at the sight\par
 of the blood on his own clothes, and joined the hysterical crowd racing away\par
 like a herd of terrified cattle from the concrete killing ground.\par
  He rushed up the ramp past the American whose life he had just saved.\par
\par
  Holcroft heard the screaming. it penetrated the numbing mists he felt\par
  engulfed in: clouds of vapor that swirled around him, obscuring his\par
  vision, inhibiting all thought.\par
  He tried to turn tDward the commotion, but the hysterical crowd prevented\par
  him from doing so. He was swept farther up the ramp and pummeled into the\par
  three-foothigh cement wall that served as a railing. He gripped the stone\par
  and looked back, unable to see clearly what had happened; he did see a man\par
  below arch backward, blood erupting from his throat. He saw a second man\par
  lunging forward, his mouth stretched in agony, and then Noel could see no\par
  more, the onslaught of bodies sweeping him once again up the concrete\par
  ramp.\par
  A man rushed by, crashing into his shoulder. Holcroft turned in time to\par
  see frightened eyes beneath a pair of thick black-and-white brows.\par
  An act of violence had taken place. An attempted robbery had turned into\par
  an assault, into a killing, perhaps. Peaceful Geneva was no more immune to\par
  violence than were the wild streets of New York at night, or the impov-\par
  erished alleyways of Marrakesh.\par
  But Noel could not dwell on such things; he could not be involved. He had\par
  other things to think about. The niists of numbness returned. Ibrough them\par
  he vaguely understood that his life would never again be the same.\par
  He gripped the envelope in his hand and joined the screaming mass racing\par
  up the ramp to the gate.\par
               3\par
\par
 Ile huge aircraft passed ovw Cape Breton Island and dipped gently to the\par
 left, descending into its new altitude and heading The route was now\par
 southwest, toward Hahfax and Boston, then into New York.\par
  Holcroft had spent most of the time in the upstairs lounge, at a single\par
  chair in the right rear comer, his black attach6 case against the bulkhead.\par
  It was easier to concentrate there; no straying eyes of an adjacent\par
  passenger could fall on the papers he read and reread, again and gam.\par
  He had begun with the letter from Heinrich Clausen, that unknown but\par
  all-pervading presence. It was an incredible document in itself. The\par
  information contained in it was of such an alarming nature that Manfredi\par
  had expressed the collective wish of the Grande Banque's directors that it\par
  be destroyed. For it detailed in general terms the sources of the millions\par
  banked in Geneva three decades ago. Although the majority of these sources\par
  were untouchable in any contemporary legal sense-thieves and murderers\par
  stealing the national funds of a government headed by thieves and\par
  murderers--other sources were not so immune to modem scrutiny. Throughout\par
  the war Germany had plundered. It had raped internally and externally. Tke,\par
  dissenters within had been stripped; the conquered without, stolen from\par
  unmercifully Should the memories of these thefts be dredged up, the\par
  international courts in The Hague could tie up the funds for years in\par
  protracted litigations.\par
  "Destroy the letter," Manfredi had said in Geneva"It's necessary only that\par
  you understand why he did what he did. Not the methods; they are a\par
  complication without any conceivable resolution. But there are those who\par
  may try to stop you. Other thieves would move in; we're dealing in hundreds\par
  of millions."\par
                18\par
         THE HOLCROPT COVENAW   19\par
\par
  Noel reread the letter for perhaps the twentieth time. Each time he did so,\par
  he tried to picture the man who wrote it. His natural father. He had no\par
  idea what Hemnch Clausen looked like; his mother had destroyed all photo-\par
  graphs, all communications, all references whatsoever to the man she\par
  loathed with all her being.\par
\par
                 Berlin, 20 April 1945\par
\par
  MY SON.\par
     I write this as the armies of the Reich collapse on all fronts. Berlin\par
     will soon fall, a city of raging fires and death everywhere. So be it.\par
     I shall waste no moments on what was, or what might have been. On\par
     concepts betrayed, and the triumph of evil over good through the\par
     treachery of morally bankrupt leaders. Recriminations born in hell are\par
     too suspect, the authorship too easily attributed to the devil.\par
     Instead, I shall permit my actions to speak for me. In them you may find\par
     some semblance of pride. That is my prayer.\par
     Amends must be mad& That is the credo I have come to recognize. As have\par
     my two dearest friends an& closest associates who are identified in the\par
     attached document. Amends for the destruction we have wrought, for\par
     betrayals so heinous the world will never forget. Or forgive. It is in\par
     the interest of partial forgiveness that we have done what we have done.\par
     Five years ago your mother made a decision I could not comprehend, so\par
     blind were my loyalties to the New Order. Two winters ago-in February\par
     of 1943--the words she spoke in rage, words I arrogantly dismissed as\par
     ties fed her by those who despised the Fatherland, were revealed to be\par
     the truth. We who labored in the rarefied circles of finance and policy\par
     had been deceived. For two years it was clear that Germany was going\par
     down to defeat. We pretended otherwise, but in our hearts we knew it was\par
     so. Others knew it, too. And they became careless. The horrors surfaced,\par
     the deceptions were clear.\par
     Twenty-five months ago I conceived of a plan and enlisted the support\par
     of my dear friends in the Finanzminlsterlum. Their support was willingly\par
     given. Our objective was to divert extraordinary\par
 20  THE HOLCROPT COVENANT\par
\par
  sums of money into neutral Switzerland, furids that could be used one day\par
  to give aid and succor to those thousands upon thousands whose lives were\par
  shattered by unspeakable atrocities committed in Germany's name by animals\par
  who knew nothing of German honor.\par
     We know now about the camps. Ile names will haunt history. Belsen,\par
     Dachau, Auschwitz.\par
     We have been told of the mass executions, of the helpless men, women and\par
     children lined up in front of trenches dug by their own hands, then\par
     slaughtered.\par
     We have learned of the ovens---oh, God in heaven-ovens for human fieshl\par
     Of the showers that sprayed not cleansing water but lethal gas. Of\par
     intolerable, obscene experiments carried out on conscious human beings\par
     by insane practitioners of a medical science unknown to an. We bleed at\par
     the images, and our eyes burst but our tears can do nothing. Our minds,\par
     however, are not so helpless. We can plan.\par
    Amends must be made.\par
     We cannot restore life. We cannot bring back what was so brutally,\par
     viciously taken. But we can seek out all those who survived, and the\par
     children of those both surviving and slaughtered, and do what we can.\par
     They must be sought out all over the world and shown that we have not\par
     forgotten. We are ashamed and we wish to help. In any way that we can.\par
     It is to this end that we have done what we have done.\par
     I do, not for a moment believe that our actions can expiate our sins,\par
     those crimes we were unknowingly a part of. Yet we do what we can-I do\par
     what I can-haunted with every breath by your mothees perceptions. Why,\par
     oh eternal God, did I not listen to that great and good woman?\par
    To return to the plan.\par
     Using the American dollar as the equivalent currency of exchange, our\par
     goal was ten -million monthly, a figure that might appear excessive, but\par
     not when one considers the capital flow through the economic maze of the\par
     FInanzmin&terium at the height of the war. We exceeded our goal.\par
    Using the FinanzmInUterium we appropri-      THE HOLCROFT COVENANT  21\par
\par
 ated funds from hundreds of sources within the Reich and to a great extent\par
 beyond, throughout Germany's ever-expanding borders. Taxes were diverted,\par
 enormous expenditures made from the Ministry of Armaments for nonexistent\par
 purchases, Wehrmacht payrolls rerouted, and monies sent to occupation\par
 territories constantly intercepted, lost Funds from expropriated estates,\par
 and from the great fortunes, factories, and individually held companies, did\par
 not find their way into the ReicWs economy but, instead, into our accounts.\par
 Sales of art objects from scores of museums throughout the conquered lands\par
 were converted to our cause. It was a master plan carried out masterfully.\par
 Whatever risks we took and terrors we faced--and they were daily\par
 occurrences-were inconsequential compared to the meaning of our credo:\par
 Amends must be made.\par
  Yet no plan can be termed a success unless the objective is secured\par
  permanently. A military strategy that captures a port only to lose it to\par
  an invasion from the sea a day later is no strategy at all. One must\par
  consider all possible assaults, all interferences that could negate the\par
  strategy. One must project, as thoroughly as projection allows, the changes\par
  mandated by time, and protect the objective thus far attained. In essence,\par
  one must use time to the strategy's advantage. We have endeavored to do\par
  this through the conditions put forth in the attached document. -\par
  Would to the Almighty that we could give aid to the victims and their\par
  survivors sooner than our projections allow, but to do so would rivet\par
  attention to the sums we have appropriated. Then aU could be lost. A\par
  generation must pass for the strategy to succeed. Even then there is risk,\par
  but time will have diminished it.\par
  The air-raid sirens keep up their incessant wailing. Speaking of time,\par
  there is very little left now. For myself and my two associates, we wait\par
  only for confirmation that this letter has reached Zurich through an\par
  underground courier. Upon receipt of the news, we have our own pacL Our\par
  pact with death, each by his own hand.\par
  Answer my prayer. Help us atone. Amends must be made.\par
 22  THE HOLCROFT COVENANT\par
     This is our covenant, my son. My only son,\par
  whom I have never known but to whom I have\par
  brought such sorrow. Abide by it, honor it, for\par
  it is an honorable thing I ask you to do.\par
\par
                       Your father,\par
                   HEDmcH CLAUSEN\par
\par
  Rolcroft put the letter facedown on the table and glanced out the window\par
  at the blue sky above the clouds. Far in the distance was the exhaust of\par
  another aircraft; he followed the streak of vapor until he could see the\par
  tiny silver gleam of the fuselage.\par
  He thought about the letter. Again. The writing was maudlin; the words were\par
  from another era, melodramatic. It did not weaken the letter; rather, it\par
  gave it a certain strength of conviction. Clausen's sincerity was unques-\par
  tioned; his emotions were genuine.\par
  What was only partially communicated, however, was the brilliance of the\par
  plan itself. Brilliant in its simplicity, ~xtraordinary in its use of time\par
  and the laws of finance to achieve both execution and protection. For the\par
  three men understood that sums of the magnitude they had stolen could not\par
  be sunk in a lake or buried in vaults. The hundreds of millions had to\par
  exist in the financial marketplace, not subject to discontinued currency\par
  or to brokers who would have to convert and sell elusive assets.\par
  Hard money had to be deposited, the responsibility for its security given\par
  to one of the world's most revered institutions, La Grande Banque de\par
  Gen6ve. Such an institution would not--could not-permit abuses where\par
  liquidity was concerned; it was an international economic rock. All the\par
  conditions of its contract with i4~ depositors would be observed.\par
  Everything was to be legal in the eyes of Swiss law. Covert-as was the\par
  custom of the tradebut ironbound with respect to existing legalities, and\par
  thus current with the times. The intent of the contract-the\par
  document---could not be corrupted; the objectives would be followed to the\par
  letter.\par
  To permit corruption or malfeasance was unthinkable. Thirty years ... fifty\par
  years ... in terms of the Imancial calendar was very little time, indeed.\par
  Noel reached down and opened his attach6 case. He slipped the pages of the\par
  letter into a compartment and\par
         THE HOLCROFT COVENANT  23\par
\par
 pulled out the document from La Grande Banque do Genave. It was encased in\par
 a leather cover, folded in the manner of a last will and testament, which it\par
 was-and then some. He leaned back in the chair and unfastened the clasp that\par
 allowed the cover to unfold, revealing the first page of the document.\par
  His "covenant," Holcroft reflected.\par
  He skimmed over the words and the paragraphs, now so familiar to him,\par
  flipping the pages as he did so, concentrating on the salient points.\par
  The identities of Clausen's two associates in the massive theft were Erich\par
  Kessler and Wilhelm von Tiebolt. The rinnies were vital not so much for\par
  identifying the two men themselves as for seeking out and contacting the\par
  oldest child of each. It was the first condition of the document. Although\par
  the designated proprietor of the numbered account was one Noel C. Holcroft,\par
  American, funds were to be released only upon the signatures of all three\par
  oldest children. And then only if each child satisfied the directors of La\par
  Grande Banque that he or she accepted the conditions and objectives set\par
  forth by the original proprietors with respect to the allocation of the\par
  funds.\par
  However, if these offspring did not satisfy the Swiss directors or were\par
  judged to be incompetent, their brothers and sisters were to be studied and\par
  further judgments made. If all the children were considered incapable of\par
  the responsibility, the millions would wait for another generation, when\par
  furthir sealed instructions would be opened by executors and by issue yet\par
  unborn. The resolve was devastating:. another generation.\par
\par
    THE LEGITIMATE SON OF HEINRICH CLAUSEN\par
  IS NOW KNOWN AS NOEL HOLCROFT, A CHILD,\par
  LIVING WITH ins MOTHER AND STEPFATHER IN\par
  AMERICA. AT THE SPECIFIC DATE CHOSEN BY THE\par
  DIRECTORS OF LA GRANDE BANQUE DE GENkVE\par
  -NOT TO BE LESS THAN THIRTY YEARS, NOR\par
  MORE THAN THIRTY-FIVE-SAID LEGITIMATE SON\par
  OF HEINRICH CLAUSEN IS TO BE CONTACTED AND\par
  IDS RESPONSIBILITIES MADE KNOWN TO HIM.\par
  HE IS TO REACH HIS COINHERrrORS AND ACTI\par
  VATE THE ACCOUNT UNDER THE CONDITIONS\par
  SET FORTIL BE SHALL BE THE CONDUIT THROUGH\par
 24  THE HOLCROFT COVENANT\par
\par
  WHICH THE FUNDS ARE TO BE DISPENSED TO\par
  THE VICTIMS OF THE HOLOCAUST, THEM FAM-\par
  ILIES AND SURVIVING ISSUE....\par
\par
  The three Germans gave their reasons for the seleotion of Clausen's son as\par
  the conduit. The child had entered into a family of wealth and consequence\par
  . . . an American family, above suspicion. All traces of his mothees first\par
  marriage and flight from Germany had been obscured by the devoted Richard\par
  -Holcroft. It was understood that in the pursuit of this obscurity a death\par
  certificate had been issued in London for an infant male named Clausen,\par
  dated February 17, 1942, and a subsequent birth certiflcate filed in New\par
  York City for the male child Holcroft. The additional years would further\par
  obscure events to the point of obliteration. The infant male Clausen would\par
  someday become the man Holcroft, with no visible relationship to his\par
  origins. Yet those origins could not be denied, and, therefore, he was the\par
  perfect choice, satisfying both the demands and the objectives of the\par
  document\par
  An international agency was to be established in Zurich, which would serve\par
  as headquarters for the dispersal of the funds, the source of the funds to\par
  be held confidential in perpetuity. Should a spokesman be required, it was\par
  to be the American, Holcroft, for the others could never be mentioned by\par
  name. Ever. They were the children of Nazis, and their exposure, would\par
  inevitably raise demands that the account be examined, that its various\par
  sources be revealed. And if the account was examined, its sources even\par
  hinted at, forgotten confiscations and appropriations would be remembered.\par
  The international courts would be swamped with litigations.\par
  But if the spokesman was a man without the Nazi stain, there would be no\par
  cause for alarm, no examinations, no demands for exhumation or litigation.\par
  He would act in concert with the others, each possessing one vote in all\par
  decisions, but he alone would be visible. The children of Erich Kessler and\par
  Wilhelm von Tiebolt were to remain anonymous.\par
  Noel wondered what the "children" of Kessler and Von Tiebolt were like. He\par
  would find out soon.\par
  The final conditions of the document were no less startling than anything\par
  that preceded them. All the monies were to be allocated within six months\par
  of the release\par
         THE HoLCROFT COVENANT  25\par
\par
 of the account Such an imposition would demand a total commitment from each\par
 of the offspring, and that was precisely what the depositors demanded: total\par
 commitment to their cause. Lives would be interrupted, sacrifices required.\par
 The commitments had to be paid for. Therefore, at the end of the six-month\par
 period and the successful allocation of the funds to the victims of the\par
 Holocaust, the Zurich agency was to be disbanded and each descendant was to\par
 receive the sum of two million dollars.\par
   Six months. Two million dollars.\par
   Two million.\par
  Noel considered what that meant to him personally and professionally. It\par
  was freedom. Manfredi had said in Geneva that he was talented. He was\par
  talented, but frequently that talent was obscured in the final product.\par
  He'd had to accept assignments he would have preferred not to take-, had\par
  to compromise designs when the architect in him dictated otherwise; had to\par
  refuse jobs he wanted very much to do, because financial pressures\par
  prohibited time spent on lesser commissions. He was turning into a cynic.\par
  Nothing was permanent; planned obsolescence went hand in hand with\par
  depreciation and amortization. No one knew it better than an architect who\par
  once had a conscience. Perhaps he would find his conscience again. With\par
  freedom. With the two million.\par
  Holcroft was startled by the progression of his thoughts. He had made up\par
  his mind, something he had not intended to do until he'd thought things\par
  through. Everything. Yet he was reclaiming a misplaced conscience with\par
  money he had convinced himself he, was capable of rejecting.\par
  What were they Me, these oldest children of Erich Kessler and Wilhelm von\par
  Tlebolt? One was a woman; the other, a man a scholar. But beyond the\par
  differences of sex and profession, they had been a part of something he had\par
  never known. They'd been there; they'd seen it. Neither had been too young\par
  to remember. Each had lived in that strange, demonic world that was the\par
  Third Reich. The American would have so many questions to ask.\par
  Questions to ask? Questions?\par
  He had made his decision. He had told Manfredi he would need time-a few\par
  days at least-before he could decide.\par
 26  THE HOLCROFT COVENANT\par
\par
  '13o you really have a choicer' the Swiss -banker had asked.\par
  "Very much so," Noel hadreplied. -rm not for sale, regardless of\par
  conditions. And I'm not frightened by threats made by maniacs thirty\par
  years ago."\par
  "Nor should you be. Discuss it with your mother."\par
  "What?" Holcroft was stunned. "I thought you said. - ."\par
  "Complete secrecy? Yes, but your mother is the smigle exception."\par
  "Why? I'd think she'd be the last. .\par
  "She's the first. And only. Shell honor the confl-\par
   99\par
 dence.\par
  Manfredi had been right. If his answer was yes, he would by necessity\par
  suspend his firm's activities and begin his travels to make contact with\par
  the offspring of Kessler and Von Tiebolt. His mother's curiosity would be\par
  aroused; she was not a woman to let her curiosity lie dormant. She would\par
  make inquiries, and if, by any chance-liowever remote--she unearthed\par
  information about the millions in Geneva and Heinrich Clausen's role in\par
  the massive theft, her reaction would be violent. Her memories of the\par
  paranoiac gangsters of the Third Reich were indelibly printed on her mind.\par
  If she made damaging disclosures public, the funds would be tied up in the\par
  international courts for years.\par
  "Suppose she isn't persuaded?"\par
  "You must be convincing. The letter is convincing, and we'll step in, if\par
  need be. Regardless, it's better to know her position at the outset."\par
  What would that position be? Noel wondered. Althene was not your\par
  run-of-the-mill mother, as mothers were understood by this particular son.\par
  He knew very early in life that Althene was different. She did not fit\par
  into the mold of the wealthy Manhattan matron. The trappings were there-or\par
  had been. The horses, the boats, the weekends in Aspen and in the\par
  Hamptons, but not the frantic chase for ever-expanding acceptance and\par
  social control.\par
  She'd done it all before. SheM lived in the turbulence that was the\par
  European thirties, a young, carefree American whose family had something\par
  left after the crash and were more comfortable away from their\par
  less-fortunate peers. She had known the Court of St. James's as well as\par
         71M HOLCROFT COVENANT  27\par
\par
 the expatriate salons in Paris ... and the dashing new inheritors of\par
 Germany. And out of those years had come a serenity shaped by love,\par
 exhaustion, loathing, and rage.\par
  Althene was a special person, as much a friend as a mother, that friendship\par
  deep and without the need for constant reaffaination. In point of fact,\par
  thought Holcraft, she was more friend than mother; she was never entirely\par
  comfortable in the latter role.\par
  'Tve made too many mistakes, my dear," she had said to him once, laughing,\par
  "to assume an authority based on biology."\par
  Now he would ask her to face the memory of a man she had spent a great deal\par
  of her life trying to forget. Would she be frightened? That wasn't likely.\par
  Would she doubt.the objectives set forth in the document given him by Ernst\par
  Manfredi? How could she, after reading the letter from Heinrich Clausen.\par
  Whatever her memories, his mother was a woman of intellect and perception.\par
  All men were subject to change, to remorse. She would have to accept that,\par
  no matter how distasteful it might be to her in this particular case.\par
  It was the weekend; tomorrow was Sunday. His mother and Atepfather spent\par
  the weekends at their house in the country, in Bedford Hills. In the\par
  morning he would drive up and have that talk.\par
  And on Monday he would take the first steps on a trip that would lead him\par
  back to Switzerland. To an as yet unknown agency in Zurich. On Monday the\par
  hunt would begin.\par
  Noel recalled his exchange with Manfredi. They were among the last words\par
  spoken before Holcroft left the train.\par
  "The Kesslers had two sons. The oldest Erichnamed for the father-is a\par
  professor of history at the University of Berlin. The younger brother,\par
  Hans, is a doctor in Munich. From what we know, both are highly regarded\par
  in their respective communities. They're very close. Once Erich is told of\par
  the situation, he may insist on his brother's inclusion."\par
   "Is that permittedr,\par
   "rbere's nothing in the document that prohibits ft. -However, the stipend\par
   remains the same and each family has but one vote in-all decisions."\par
   "What about the Von Tiebolts?"\par
 28  THE HOLCROFT COVENANT\par
\par
  "Another story, rm afraid. They may be a problem for you. After the war the\par
  records show that the mother and two children Bed to Rio de Janeiro. Five\par
  or six years ago they disappeared. Literally. The police have no infor-\par
  mation. No address, no business associations, no listings in the other\par
  major cities. And that's unusual; the mother became quite successful for\par
  a time. No one seems to know what happened, or if people do, they're not\par
  willing to say~"\par
  'Tou said two children. Who are they?"\par
  "Actually, there are three children. The youngest, a daughter, Helden, was\par
  born after the war, in Brazil, obviously conceived during the last days of\par
  the Reich. Ihe oldest is another daughter, Gretchen. The middle child is\par
  Johann, the son."\par
  "You say, they disappeared?"\par
  "Perhaps it's too dramatic a term. We're bankers, not investigators. Our\par
  inquiries were not that extensive, and Brazil is a very large country. Your\par
  inquiries must be exhaustive. Ike offspring of each man must be found and\par
  scrutinized. It!s the first condition of the document; without compliance,\par
  the account will not be released."\par
  Holcroft folded the document and put it back in his aftach6 case. As he did\par
  so, his fingers touched the edge of the single sheet of paper with the odd\par
  block lettering written by the survivors of Wolfsschanze thirty years ago.\par
  Manfredi was right: They were sick old men trYmg to play their last\par
  desperate roles-in a drama of the future they barely understood. If they\par
  had understood, they would have appealed to the "son of Heinrich Clausen."\par
  Pleaded with him, not threatened hun. The threat was the enlSma. Why was\par
  it made? For what purpose? A i\par
 perhaps, Manfredi was right. The strange paper had no meaning now. There\par
 were other things to thin about.\par
  Holcroft caught the eye of the stewardess chaffing with two men at a table\par
  across the way and gestured for another scotch. She smiled pleasantly,\par
  nodded, and indicated that the drink would be there in moments. He returned\par
  to his thoughts.\par
  The inevitable doubts surfaced. Was he prepared to commit what amounted to\par
  a year of his life to a project so immense that his own qualifications had\par
  to be examined before the children of Kessler and Von Mebolt\par
 examined-if, indeed, he could find the latter? Man-         THE ROLCROPT COVENANT  29\par
\par
 fredi's words - came back to him. Do you really have a choice? The answer to\par
 that question was both yes and no. The two million, which signified his own\par
 freedom, was a temptation difficult to reject, but he could reject it. His\par
 dissatisfactions were real, but professionally, things were going well. His\par
 reputation was spreading, his skills acknowledged by a growing number of\par
 clients who in turn told potential clients. What would happen if he suddenly\par
 stopped? What would be the effect should he abruptly withdraw from a dozen\par
 commissions for which he was competing? These too were questions to be\par
 considered deeply; he was not ruled by money alone.\par
  Yet, as his mind wandered, Noel understood the uselessness of his thoughts.\par
  Compared to Ibis ... covenant ... the questions were inconsequential.\par
  Whatever his personal circumstances, the distribution of millions to the\par
  survivors of an inhumanity unknown in history was long overdue; it was an\par
  obligation impossible to dismiss. A voice had cried out to him through the\par
  years, the voice of a man in agony who was the father he had never known.\par
  For reasons he was incapable of explaining to himself, he could not be deaf\par
  to that voice; he could not walk away from that man in agony. He would\par
  drive to Bedford Hills in the morning and see his mother.\par
  Holcroft looked up, wondering where the stewardess was with his drink. She\par
  was at the dimly lit counter that served as the bar in the 747s lounge. The\par
  two men from the table had accompanied her; they were joined by a third.\par
  A fourth man sat quietly in a rear seat, reading a newspaper. The two men\par
  with the stewardess had been drinking heavily, while the third, in his\par
  search for camaraderie, pretended to be less sober than he was. The\par
  stewardess saw Noel looking at her and arched her eyebrows in mock\par
  desperation. She had poured his scotch, but one of the drunks had spilled\par
  it; she was wiping it up with a cloth. Ile drunke companion suddenly\par
  lurched back against a chair, his balance lost. The stewardess dashed\par
  around the counter to help the fallen passenger; his friend laughed,\par
  steadying himself on an adjacent chair. The third man reached for a drink\par
  on the bar. The fourth man looked up in disgust, crackling his paper, the\par
  sound conveying his disapproval. Noel returned to the window not caring to\par
  be a part of the minor confusion.\par
  Several minutes later the stewardess approached his\par
 30  THE HOLCROFT COVENANT\par
\par
 table. "Im sorry, Mr. Holcroft. Boys will be boys, more so on the Atlantic\par
 run, I think. That was scotch on the rocks, wasn't it?"\par
  "Yes. Thanks." Noel took the glass from the attractive girl and saw the\par
  look in her eyes. It seemed to say, Thank you, nice person, for not coming\par
  on like those crashing bores. Under different circumstances he might have\par
  pursued a conversation, but now he had other things to think about His mind\par
  was listing the things he would do on Monday. Closing his office was not\par
  difficult in terms of personnel; he had a small staff : a secretary and two\par
  draftsmen he could easily place with friends-probably at higher salaries.\par
  But why in heaven's name would Holcroft, Incorporated, New York, close up\par
  shop just when its designs were being considered for projects that could\par
  triple its staff and quadruple its gross income? The explanation had to be\par
  both reasonable and above scrutiny.\par
  Suddenly, without warning, a passenger on the other side of the cabin\par
  sprang from his seat, a hoarse, wild cry of pain coming from his throat.\par
  He arched his back spastically, as if gasping for air, clutched first his\par
  stomach, then his chest. He crashed into the wooden divider that held\par
  magazines and airline schedules and twisted maniacally, his eyes wide, the\par
  veins in his neck purple and distended. He lurched forward and sprawled to\par
  the deck of the cabin.\par
  It was the third man, who had joined the two drunks at the bar with the\par
  stewardess.\par
  The next moments were chaotic. The stewardess rushed to the fallen man,\par
  observed him closely, and followed procedure. She instructed the three\par
  other passengers in the cabin to remain in their seats, placed a cushion\par
  beneath the man's head, and returned to the counter and the intercom on the\par
  wall. In seconds a male ffight attendant rushed up the circular staircase;\par
  the British Airways captain emerged from the flight deck. They conferred\par
  with the stewardess over the unconscious body. The male attendant walked\par
  rapidly to the staircase, descended, and returned within a few moments with\par
  a clipboard. It was obviously the plane's manifest\par
  The captain stood and addressed the others in the lounge. "Will you all\par
  please return to your seats below. Theres a doctor on board. He's being\par
  summoned. Thank you very much.99 .\par
         TIM HOLCROFT COVENANT  31\par
\par
  As Holcroft sidestepped. his way down the staircase, a stewardess carrying\par
  a blanket climbed quickly past him. Then he heard the captain issue an\par
  order over the intercom. "Radio Kennedy for emergency equipment. Medical.\par
  Male passenger, name of Thornton. Heart seizure, I believe."\par
\par
  The doctor knelt by the prone figure stretched out on the rear seat of the\par
  lounge and asked for a flashlight. The first officer hurried to the flight\par
  deck and returned with one. Ike doctor rolled back the eyelids of the man\par
  named Tbornton, then turned and motioned for the captain to join him; he\par
  had something to say. The captain bent over; the doctor spoke quietly.\par
  "Hes dead. It's difficult to say without equipment, without tissue and\par
  blood analysis, but I don7t think this man had a heart attack. I think\par
  hewas poisoned. Strychnine would be my guess."\par
\par
  The customs inspectoes office was suddenly quiet. Behind the inspectoes\par
  desk sat a homicide detective from New York's Port Authority police, a\par
  British Airways clipboard in front of him. The inspector stood rigidly\par
  embarrassed to one side. In two chairs against the wall sat the captain of\par
  the 747 and the stewardess assigned to its first-class lounge. By the door\par
  was a uniformed police officer. The detective stared at the customs\par
  inspector in disbelief.\par
  "Are you telling me that two people got off that plane, walked through\par
  sealed-off corridors into the sealedoff, guarded customs area, and\par
  vanished?"\par
  "I can't- explain it," said the inspector, shaking his head despondently.\par
  "It's never happened before."\par
  The detective turned to the stewardess. "Yowre convinced they were drunk,\par
  missr'\par
  "Not now, perhaps," replied the girl. "I've got to have second thoughts.\par
  They drank a great deal; rm certain of it; they couldn7t have faked that.\par
  I served them. They appeared quit.- sloshed. Harmless, but sloshed."\par
  "Could they have poured their drinks out somewhere? Without drin!dng\par
  them., I mean."\par
  "Where?" asked the stewardess.\par
  "I don't know. Hollow ashtrays, the seat cushions. What's on the floor?"\par
 32  THE KOLCROFT COVENANT\par
\par
  "Carpeting," answered the pilot.\par
  The detective addressed. the police officer by the door. "Get forensic on\par
  your radio. Have them check the carpet, the seat cushions, ashtrays. Left\par
  side of the ropedoff area facing front. Dampness is enough. Let me know."\par
  'Tes, sir." The officer left quickly, closing the door behind him.\par
  "Of course," ventured the captain, "alcoholic tolerances vary.91\par
  "Not in the amounts the young lady describecV' the detective said.\par
  "For God's sake, why is it important?" said the cap, tain. "Obviously\par
  they're the men you want. They've vanished, as you put it. That took some\par
  planning, I daresay."\par
  "Everything's important," explained the detective, 'Methods can be matched\par
  with previous crimes. We're looking for anything. Crazy people. Rich, crazy\par
  people who jet around the world looking for thrills. Signs of psychosis,\par
  getting kicks while on a high--alcohol or narcotics, it doesn't matter. As\par
  far as we can determine, the two men in question didn't even know this\par
  Thornton; your stewardess here said they introduced themselves. Why did\par
  they IM him? And, accepting the fact that they did, why so brutally? It was\par
  strychnine, Captain, and take my word for it, it's a rough way to go."\par
  The telephone rang. The customs inspector. answered it; listened briefly,\par
  and handed it to the Port Authority detective. "It's the State Department.\par
  For you."\par
  "State? This is Lieutenant Miles, NYPA police. Have you got the information\par
  I requested?"\par
  "We've got it, but you won't like it. . .\par
  "Wait a minute," Miles broke in. The door had opened and the uniformed\par
  officer had reappeared. "What have you got?" Miles asked the officer.\par
  "The seat cushions and the carpet on the left side of the lounge are\par
  soaked."\par
  lfben they were cold sober," said the detective, in a monotone. He nodded\par
  and returned to the telephone. Go ahead, State. What won't I like?"\par
  "Those passports in question were declared void more than four years ago.\par
  They belonged to two men from Flint, Michigan. Neighbors, actually; worked\par
  for the same company in Detroit. In June of 1973 they both went on a\par
  business trip to Europe and never came back."\par
         THE HOLCROFT COVENANT  33\par
\par
  "%y were the passports voided?"\par
  "Mey disappeared from their hotel rooms. Three days later their bodies were\par
  found in the river. They'd been shot."\par
  "Jeswl What river? Where?"\par
  wMe Isar. They were mi Munich, Germany."\par
\par
  One by one the irate passengers of Flight 591 passed through the door of\par
  the quarantined room. Their names, addresses, and telephone numbers were\par
  checked off against the 747's manifest by a representative of British\par
  Airways. Next to the representative was a member of the Port Authority\par
  police, making his own marks on a duplicate list. The quarantine had lasted\par
  nearly four hours.\par
  Outside the room the passengers were directed down a hallway into a large\par
  cargo area, where they retrieved their inspected luggage, and headed for\par
  the doors of the main terminal. One passenger, however, made no move to\par
  leave the cargo area. Instead, this man, who carried no luggage, but had\par
  a raincoat over his arm, walked directly to a door with thick, stenciled\par
  printing on the panel.\par
\par
       U. S. CUSTOMS. CONTROL CENTER\par
        AUTHORIZED PERSONNEL ONLY\par
\par
  Showing identification, he stepped inside.\par
  A gray-haired man in the uniform of a high-ranking customs official stood\par
  by a steel-framed window, smoking a ciprefte. At the intrusion, he turned.\par
  "I've been waiting for you," he said. "There was nothing I could do while\par
  you were quarantined."\par
  "I had the M card ready in case you weren't here," replied the passenger,\par
  putting the identification back into his jacket pocket.\par
  "Keep it mdy..You may stiff need it; the police are all over the place.\par
  What do you want to doT'\par
  "Get out to that aircraft"\par
  "You think they're there?"\par
  "YeL Somewhere. It's the only explanation."\par
  The two men left the room and walked rapidly across the cargo area, past\par
  the numerous conveyor belts, to a steel doorway marked NO ADMITTANCE. Using\par
  a key, the customs official opened it and preceded the younger man With the\par
  raincoat through the door.'They were\par
 34  THE HOLCROFT COVENANT\par
\par
 inside a long cinderblock tunnel that led to the field. Forty seconds later\par
 they reached another steel door, this one guarded by two men, one from U.S.\par
 Customs, the other from the Port Authority police. The gray-haired official\par
 was recognized by the former.\par
  "Hello, Captain. Hell. of a night, isn't itr'\par
  "It's only begun, I'm afraid," said the OfficiaL "We may be involved, after\par
  all." He looked at the policeman. "Ibis man's federal," he continued,\par
  angling his head at his companion. "Im taking him to the five-ninety-one\par
  aircraft. There may be a narcotics connection."'\par
  The police officer seemed confused. Apparently his orders were to allow no\par
  one through the door. The customs guard interceded.\par
  "Hey, come on. This man runs all of Kennedy Air-\par
 port.99\par
  The policeman shrugged and opened the door.\par
  Outside a steady rain fell from the black night sky as pockets of mist\par
  rolled in from Jamaica Bay. The\par
 with the customs official put on his raincoat. His movements were swift; in\par
 the hand beneath the coat held over his arm had'been a gun. It was now in\par
 his belt, the buttons at his waist unfastened.\par
  The 747 glistened under floodlights, rain streaking down its fuselage.\par
  Police and maintenance crews were everywhere, distinguished from one\par
  another by the contrasting black and orange of their slickers.\par
  "IT build your cover with the police inside," said the customs official,\par
  gesturing at the metal steps that swept up from the back of the truck to\par
  a door in the fuselage. -Good hunting.-\par
  The man in the raincoat nodded, not really listening. His eyes were\par
  scanning the area. The 747 was the focal point; thirty yards from it in all\par
  directions were Stanchions connected by ropes, policemen at midpoints be-\par
  tween them. The man in the raincoat was within this enclosure; he could\par
  move about freely. He turned right at the end of the parallel ropes and\par
  proceeded toward the rear of the aircraft. He nodded to the police officers\par
  at their posts, slapping his identification open casually to those whose\par
  looks were questioning. He kept peering through the rain into the faces of\par
  those entering and leaving the plane. lbree quarters around the plan% he\par
  board the angry shout of a maintenance crewman.\par
         THE HOLCROPT COVENANT  35\par
\par
  'Vhat the fuck are you doing? Get that winch securel"\par
  The target of the outburst was another crewman, standing on the platform\par
  of a fuel truck. This crewman had no rain slicker on; his white coverall\par
  was drenched. In the driver's seat of the truck sat another crewman, also\par
  without rain apparel.\par
  That was it, thought the man in the raincoat. The killers had worn\par
  coveralls beneath their suits. But they had not taken into consideration\par
  the possibility of rain. Except for that mistake, the escape had been\par
  planned brilliantIY-\par
  The man walked over to the fuel truck, his hand on the gun concealed\par
  beneath his raincoat. Through the rain he stared at the figure beyond the\par
  truck window, in the driver's seat; the second man was above him, to his\par
  right on the platform, turned away. The face behind the window stared back\par
  in disbelief, and instantly lurched for the far side of the seat. But the\par
  man in the raincoat was too quick. He opened the door, pulled out his re-\par
  volver and fired, the gunshot muted by a silencer. The rnnn in the seat\par
  fell into the dashboard, blood streaming out of his forehead.\par
  At the sound of the commotion below, the second man spun around on the\par
  steel platform of the, truck and looked below.\par
  "Youl In the loungel With the newspaperl"\par
  "Get inside the truck," commanded the man in the raincoat, his words clear\par
  through the pounding rain, his gun concealed behind the door panel.\par
  The figure on the platform hesitated. The man with the gun looked around.\par
  The surrounding police were preoccupied with their discomfort in the\par
  downpour, half blinded by the floodlights. None was observing the deadly\par
  scene. The man in the raincoat reached up, grabbed the white cloth of the\par
  surviving killer's coverall, and yanked him into the frame of the open door\par
  of the fuel truck.\par
  "You failed. Heinrich Clausen's son still lives," he said calmly. Then he\par
  fired a second shot. The killer fell back into the seat.\par
  The man in the raincoat closed the door and put his gun back into his belt.\par
  He walked casually away, directly underneath the fuselage toward the\par
  roped-off alleyway that led to the tunnel. He could see the customs\par
  official\par
           I\par
 36  THE HOLCROPT COVENANT\par
\par
 emerging from the 747's door, walking rapidly down the steps. They met and\par
 together headed for the.door of the tunnel.\par
  'T&at happenedr' asked the official.\par
  "My hunting was good. Theirs wasn't. The question is, what do we do\par
  about Holcroft?"\par
  "That's not our concern. It's the Tinamou's. The Tinamou must be\par
  informed."\par
  The man in the raincoat smiled to himself, knowing his smile could not\par
  be seen in the downpour.\par
               4\par
\par
 Holcroft got out of the taxi in front of his apartme nt on East\par
 Seventy-third Strea He was exhausted, the strain of the last three days\par
 heightened by the tragedy on board the fight. He was sorry for the poor\par
 bastard who'd had the heart attack, but furious at the Port Authority police\par
 who treated, the incident as if it were an international crisis. Good Lordl\par
 Quarantined for damned near four hoursl And all passengers in first class\par
 were to keep the police informed of their whereabouts for the next sixty\par
 days.\par
  The doorman greeted him. "A short trip this time, Mr. Holcroft. But you got\par
  a lot of mail. Oh, and a message-It\par
  "A messageT'\par
  "Yes, sir," said the doorman, handing him a business card. 'This gentleninn\par
  came in asking for you last night. He was very agitated, you know what I\par
  mean?"\par
  "Not exactly." Noel took the card and read the name: PETER BALDWIN, ESQ.;\par
  it meant nothing to him.\par
 WELLINGTON SECURM SYSTEMS, LTD. TIM STRAND, LONDON, wlA. There was a\par
 telephone number underneath. Holcroft had never heard of the British\par
 company. He turned the card over; on the back was scribbled ST. REGIS wTEL.\par
 Rm. 411.\par
  "He insisted that I ring your apartment in case you'd gotten back and I\par
  didn't see you come in. I told him that was crazy.99\par
  "He could have telephoned me himself," said Noel, walking toward the\par
  elevator. "I'm in the book."\par
  "He told me he tried, but your phone was out of order." ne elevator door\par
  closed on the man's last words. Holcroft read the name again as the\par
  elevator climbed to the fifth floor. Peter Baldwin, Esq. Who was he? And\par
  since when was his phone out of order?\par
               37\par
 38  THE HOLCROPT COVENANT\par
\par
  He opened his apartment door and reached for the light switch on the wall.\par
  Two table lamps went on simultaneously; Noel dropped his suitcase and\par
  stared in disbelief at the room.\par
  Nothing was the same as it was three days agol NothIng. Every piece of\par
  furniture, every chair, every table, every vase and ashtray, was moved into\par
  another position. His couch had been in the center of the room; it was now\par
  in the far-right comer. Each sketch and painting on the walls had been\par
  shifted around~ none where it had been beforel The stereo was -to longer\par
  on the shelf; instead it was neatly arranged on a table. His bar, always\par
  at the rear of the living room, was now at the left of the door. His\par
  drafting board, usually by the window, was now by itself ten feet in front\par
  of him, the stool somewhere else-God knew where. It was the strangest\par
  sensation he had ever had. Everything familiar, yet not familiar at all.\par
  Reality distorted, out of focus.\par
  He stood in the open doorway. Images of the room as. it had been kept\par
  reappearing in front of his eyes, only to be replaced by what was in front\par
  of him now.\par
  "What happened2" He heard his own words, unsure they were his at first.\par
  He ran to the couch; the telephone was always by the couch, on a table at\par
  its right arm. But the couch had been moved, and the telephone had not been\par
  moved with it. He spun around toward the center of the rOonL Where was the\par
  table? It was not there; an armchair was where the table should be. The\par
  telephone was not there, eitherl Where was the telephone? Where was the\par
  table? Where the hell was the telephone?\par
  It was by the window. There was his kitchen table by the livingmroom\par
  window, and the telephone was on top of it. The large center window that\par
  looked out at the apartment building across the wide courtyard below. The\par
  telephone wires had been taken out from under the wallto-wall carpeting and\par
  moved to the window. It was crazyl Who would take the trouble to lift\par
  tacked-down carpeting and move telephone wires?\par
  He raced to the table, picked up the phone, and pressed the intercom button\par
  that connected him to the switchboard in the lobby. He stabbed the signal\par
  button repeatedly; there was no answer. He kept his finger on it; finally,\par
  the harried voice of Jack the doorman answered.\par
         THE HOLCROFT COVENANT  39\par
\par
  "All right, all right This is the lobby. . .\par
  "Jack, it's Mr. Holcroft. Who came up to my apartment while I was away?"\par
  "Who came what, sir?"\par
  "Up to my apartmend"\par
  "Were you robbed, Mr. Holcroft?"\par
  "I don't )mow yet. I just know that everything's been moved around. Who\par
  was here?"\par
  "Nobody. I mean, nobody I know of. And the other guys didn't say anything.\par
  I'm relieved at four in the morning by Ed, and he's off at noon. Louie\par
  takes over then."\par
  "Can you call themr,\par
  "Hell, I can call the policel"\par
  The word was jarring. "Police" meant questions\par
 Where had he been? Whom had he seen?-and Noel was not sure he wanted to give\par
 any answers.\par
  "No, don't call the police. Not yet. Not until I see if anything's\par
  iniissing. It might be someone's idea of a joke. I'll call you back." -\par
  "I'll call the other guys."\par
  Holcroft hung up. He sat on the wide windowsill and appraised the room.\par
  Everything. Not a single piece of furniture was where it had been beforel\par
  He was holding something in his left hand: the business card. PETER\par
  BALDWIN, ESQ.\par
  ". . . he war very agitated, you know what I mean? ... he insisted I ring\par
  your apartment ... your phone was out of order .....\par
   ST. REGIS HOTEL. Rm. 411.\par
  Noel picked up the phone and dialed. He knew the number well; he lunched\par
  frequently at the King Cole Grill.\par
  "Yes? Baldwin here." The voice was British, the greeting abrupt.\par
  "This is Noel Holcroft, Mr. Baldwin. You tried to reach me."\par
  "Ibank heavensl Where are you?"\par
  "Home. In my apartment. I just got back."\par
  "Back? From where?"\par
  "I'm not sure that's any of your business."\par
  "For God's sake, I've traveled over three thousand miles to see. youl It's\par
  dreadfully important. Now where were you?"\par
  The En&hman's breathing was audible over the\par
 40  THE HOLCROPT COVENANT\par
\par
 phone; the man's intensity seemed somehow related to fear. -rm flattered you\par
 came all that distance to see me, but it still doesn't give you the right to\par
 ask personal questions. . . ."\par
  "I have every rightl" broke in Baldwin. "I spent twenty years with MI Six,\par
  and we have a great deal to talk aboutl You have no idea what yotfre doing.\par
  No one does but me."\par
  "You what? We what?"\par
  "Let. me put it this way. Cancel Geneva. Cancel it, Mr. Holcroft, until\par
  we've talkedl"\par
  "Geneva? . . ." Noel felt suddenly sick to his stomach. How would this\par
  Englishman know about Geneva? How could he know?\par
  A light flickered outside the window; someone in an apartment directly\par
  across the courtyard was lighting a cigarette. Despite his agitation,\par
  Holcroft's eyes were drawn to I\par
  IOMeres someone at the door," Baldwin said. "Stay on the phone. I'll get\par
  rid of whoever it is and be right back."\par
  Noel could hear Baldwin put the telephone down, then the sound of a door\par
  opening and indistinguishable voices. Across the courtyard, in the window,\par
  a match was struck again, illuminating the long blond hair of a wo\par
 behind a sheer curtain.\par
  ~ Holcroft realized there was silence on the line; he could hear no voices\par
  now. Moments went by; the Englishman did not'return.\par
  "Baldwin? Baldwin, where are you? Baldwinr\par
  For a third time a- match flared in the window across the way. Noel stared\par
  at it; it seemed unnecessary. He could see the glow of a cigarette in the\par
  blond woman's mouth. And then he saw what was in her other hand,\par
  silhouetted behind the sheer curtain: a telephone. She was holding a\par
  telephone to her ear and looking over at his window-looking, he was sure,\par
  at hmL\par
  "Baldwin? Where the hell are you?"\par
  There was a click; the line went dead.\par
  "Baldwinl"\par
  The woman in the window slowly lowered the telephone, paused for a moment,\par
  and walked away, out of sighL\par
         THE HoLcROFT CovENANT  41\par
\par
  Holcroft stared at the window, then at the telephone in his hand. He waited\par
  until he got the active fine, theti redialed the St. Regis.\par
  "I'm sorry, sir, room four-eleven's telephone seems to be out of order.\par
  We'll send someone up right away. May I have your number and we!ll give it\par
  to Mr. Baldwin."\par
  ... your phone was out of order...\par
  Something was happening that Noel did not understand. He knew only that he\par
  would not leave his name or number with the operator at the SL Regis. He\par
  hung up and looked again at the window across the courtyard. Whatever light\par
  there had been was gone. The window was dark; be could see only the white\par
  of the curtain.\par
  He pushed himself away from the windowsill and wandered aimlessly about the\par
  room around familiar possessions in unfamiliar locations. He was not sure\par
  what to do; he supposed he should see if anything was missing. Nothing\par
  seemed to be, but it was difficult to tell.\par
  The telephone buzzed: the intercom from the lobby switchboard. He answered\par
  it.\par
   It's. Jack, Mr. Holcroft. I just spoke to Ed and Uuie. Neither af 'em know\par
   anything about anyone going up to your place. They're honest guys. They\par
   wouldn!t screw around. None ofus would."\par
  'Ibanks, Jack. I believe you."\par
  "You want me to call the policer\par
  "No." Noel tried to sound casual. "I have an idea someone at the office was\par
  playiag a joke. A couple of the fellows have keys." -\par
  "I didn't we anybody. Neither did Ed or----~'\par
  "It's okay, Jack," interrupted Holcroft. "Forget it. The night I left we\par
  had a party. One or two stayed over." It was all Noel could think of to\par
  say.\par
  Suddenly it occurred to him that he had not looked in his bedroom. He went\par
  there now, his hand reaching for the light switch on the wall.\par
  He expected it, but it was still a shock. Ile disorientation was now\par
  somehow complete.\par
  Again, each piece of furniture had been moved to a different position. Ile\par
  bed was the first thing that struck his eye; it was oddly frightening. No\par
  part of it touched the wall. Instead, it was in the center of the room.\par
  iso-\par
   42 THE IROLCROFT COVENANT\par
\par
 lated. His bureau stood in front of a window; a small writing desk was\par
 dwarfed against the expanse of the right wall. As had happened minutes ago,\par
 when first he'd seen the living room, the images of what his bedroom looked\par
 like three days ago kept flashing before bm36 replaced by the strangeness of\par
 what he now observed.\par
  Then he saw it and gasped. Hanging down from the ceiling, strapped together\par
  with dull black tape, was his second telephone, the extension cord snaking\par
  up the wall and across the ceiling to the hook that held it.\par
  It was spinning slowly.\par
  The pain shifted from his stomach to his chest; his eyes were transfixed\par
  on the sight, on the suspended instrument revolving slowly in midair. He\par
  was afraid to look beyond, but he knew he had to; he had to understand.\par
  And when he did, his breath came back to him. The phone was in the direct\par
  path of his bathroom door and the door was open. He saw the curtains\par
  billowing in the window above the basin. The steady stream of cold wind was\par
  making the telephone spin.\par
  He walked quickly into the bathroom to shut the window. As he was about to\par
  pull the curtains, he saw a brief flash of illumination outside; a match\par
  bad been struck in another window across the courtyard, the flare startling\par
  in the darkness. He looked out.\par
  There was the woman againl The blond-haired woman, her upper body\par
  silhouetted beyond another set of sheer curtains. He stared at the figure,\par
  mesmerized by it.\par
  She turned as shi had turned before, and walked away as she had walked away\par
  minutes ago. Out of sight. And the dim light in the window went out.\par
  What was happening? What did it mean? Things were being orchestrated to\par
  frighten him. But by whom and for what purpose? And what had happened to\par
  Peter Baldwin, Esq., he of the intense voice and the command to cancel\par
  Geneva? Was Baldwin a part of the terror, or was he a victim of. it?\par
  Victim . . . victim? It was an odd word to use, he thought. Why should\par
  there be any victims? And what did Baldwin mean when he said he had "spent\par
  twenty years with MI Six"?\par
  MI Six? A branch of British intelligence. If he remembered correctly, MI\par
  Five was the section that dealt\par
         THE HOLCROFT COVENANT  43\par
\par
 with domestic matters; Six concerned itself with problems outside the\par
 country. The English CIA, as it were.\par
  Good Godl Did the British know about the Geneva document? Was British\par
  intelligence aware of the massive theft of thirty years ago? On the\par
  surface, it would appear so. . . . Yet that was not what Peter Baldwin had\par
  implied.\par
  You have no idea what you're doing. No one does but me.\par
  And then there was silence, and the line went dead.\par
  Holcroft walked out of the bathroom and paused beneath the suspended\par
  telephone; it was barely moving now, but it had not stopped. It was an\par
  ugly sight, made macabre by the profusion of dull black tape that held the\par
  instrument together. As if the phone had been mummified, never to be used\par
  gafiL\par
  He continued toward the bedroom door, then instinctively stopped and\par
  turned. Something had caught his eye, something he had not noticed before.\par
  The center drawer of the small writing desk was open. He looked closer.\par
  Inside the drawer was a sheet of paper.\par
  His breathing stopped as he stared at the page below.\par
  It couldn!t be. It was insane. The single sheet of paper was brownish\par
  yellow. With age. It was identical to the page that had been kept in a\par
  vault in Geneva for thirty years. The letter filled with threats written\par
  by fanatics who revered a martyr named Heinrich Clausen. The writIng was\par
  the same; the odd Germanic printing of English words, the ink that was\par
  faded but stiff legible.\par
  And what was legible was astonishing. For it had been written more than\par
  thirty years ago.\par
\par
NOEL CLAUSEN-HOLCROFT\par
NOTHING IS AS IT WAS FOR YOU. NOTMNG\par
CAN EVER BE TIM MME...\par
\par
  Before he read further, Noel picked up an edge of the page. It crumbled\par
  under his touch.\par
  Oh, Godl It was written thirty years agol\par
  And that fact made the remainder of the message frightening.\par
\par
    THE PAn WAS PREPARATION, TM FUTURE 13\par
  COMMITTED TO THE MMMORY OF A MAN AND HIS\par
  DREAM EMS WAS AN ACT OF DARING AND BRIOL- 44  THE HOLCROFT COVENANT\par
\par
  LL4,NCE IN A WORLD GONE MAD. NOTENG MUST\par
  STAND IN THE WAY OF THAT DREAM's FULFILL34ENT.\par
    WE ARE THE SURVIVORS OF WOLPSSCHANM\par
  TIMM OF US WHO LIVE WILL DEDICATE OUR LIM AND BODIES TO THE PROTECTION OF\par
  THAT MAN'S DREAM. IT WILL BE FULFILLED, FOR IT IS ALL THAT IS LEFT. AN ACT\par
  OF MERCY THAT WILL BMW TEE WORLD THAT WE WERE BETRAYED, THAT WE WERE NOT\par
  AS THE WORLD BELIEVED US TO BE. WE, THE MEN OF WOLFSSCHANZE, KNOW\par
  WHAT THE BEST OF US WERE. AS HEINRICH CLAUSEN ENEW.\par
    IT IS NOW UP TO YOU, NOEL CLAUSEN-\par
  HOLCROFT, TO COMPLETE WHAT YOUR FATHER BEGAN. YOU ARE THE WAY YOUR FATHER\par
  WISHED IT SO.\par
    MANY WILL TRY TO STOP YOU TO THROW\par
  OPEN THE FLOODGATES AND DESTROY THE DREAM. BUT THE MEN OF WOLFSSCIL4,NZE\par
  DO SURVIVE. YOU HAVE OUR WORD THAT ALL THOSE WHO INTERFERE WELL BE STOPPED\par
  THEMSELVES. ANY WHO STAND IN YOUR WAY, WHO TRY\par
  TO DISSUADE YOU, WHO TRY TO DECEIVE YOU WITH LIES, WILL BE ELIMINATED.\par
    AS YOU AND YOURS WILL BE SHOULD YOU\par
  HESITATE. OR FAIL.\par
    THIS IS OUR OATH TO YOU.\par
\par
  Noel grabbed the paper out of the drawer; it fell apart in his hand. He let\par
  the fragments fall to the floor.\par
  "Goddamned mantacil" He slammed the drawer shut and ran out of the bedroom.\par
  Where was the telephone? Where the hell was the gGddamned telephone? By the\par
  window-that was it; it was on the kitchen table by the fucking windowl\par
  "Maniacs1" he screamed again at no one. But not really at no one: at a man\par
  in Geneva who had been on a train bound for Zurich. Maniacs might have\par
  written that page of garbage thirty years ago, but now, thirty years later,\par
  other maniacs had delivered itl They had broken into his home, invaded his\par
  privacy, touched his belongings. ... God knows what else, he thought,\par
  thinking of Peter Baldwin, Esq. A man who had traveled thousands of\par
         THE HOLCROPT COVENANT  45\par
\par
 miles to we him, and talk with himsilence, a click, a\par
 dead telephone line.\par
  He looked at his watctL it was almost one o'clock in the morning. What was\par
  it in Zurich? Six? Seven? The banks in Switzerland opened at eight. La\par
  Grande Banque de (knave had a branch in Zurich; Manfredi would be them\par
  The window. He was standing in front of the window where he W stood only\par
  minutes ago, waiting for Baldwin to come back on the phone. The window.\par
  Across the courtyard in the opposite apartment. lie three brief flares of\par
  a match ... the blond-haired wornan in the windowl\par
  Holcroft put his hand in his pocket to make sure he had his keys. He did.\par
  He ran to, the door, let himself out, raced for the elevator, and pushed\par
  the button. The indicator showed that the car was on the tenth floor; the\par
  arrow did not move.\par
  God damn Itl\par
  He ran to the staircase and started down, taking the steps two at a time.\par
  He reached the ground floor and dashed out into the lobby.\par
   Jesus, Mr. Holcroft!" Jack stared at him "You scared the shit out of me\par
   I"\par
  "Do you know the doorman in the next bulldmgr' shouted Noel.\par
  "WhIch one?"\par
  "Christi That onel" Holcroft gestured to the right.\par
  -1bat's three-eighty. Yeah, sure."\par
  "Come on with mel"\par
  "Hey, wait a minute, Mr. Holcroft I Mot leave here-"\par
  "We'll only be a minute. There's twenty dollars in it for YM to\par
  "Only a minute...."\par
  The doorman at three-eighty greeted them, understanding quickly that he was\par
  to give accurate information to Jack's friend.\par
  "I'm sorry, sir, but there's no one In that apartment. Hasn't been for\par
  almost three weeks. But I'm afraid WS been rented; the new tenants will be\par
  coming in. . - ."\par
  'Mere is someone therel" said Noel, trying to con-, trol himself. "A\par
  blond-haired woman. I've got to find out who she is."\par
 46  THE HOLCROPT COVENANT\par
\par
  ."A blond-haired woman? Kind of medium height, sort of good-looking, smokes\par
  a lot?"\par
  "Yes, that's the one I Who is sher'\par
  "You live in your place long, misterr'\par
  Ggiihatrq\par
  "I mean, have you been there a long time?"\par
   Whars that got to do with anydiingr\par
  "I think maybe you've been drinking...\par
   What the bell are you talking about?l Who LI that woman?"\par
  "Not is, mister Was The blond woman youre talking about was Mrs. Palatyne.\par
  She died a month ago."\par
\par
  Noel sat in the chair in front of the window, staring across the courtyard.\par
  Someone was trying to drive him crazy. But why? it did not make sensel\par
  Fanatics, maniacs from thirty years ago, had sprung across three decades,\par
  commanding younger, unknown troops thirty Years laterApin, why?\par
  He had called the St. Regis. Room four-eleven's telephone was working, but\par
  it was continuously busy. And a woman he had seen clearly did not exisL But\par
  she did existi And she was a part of it; h6 knew it.\par
  He got out of the chair, walked to the strangely placed bar, and poured\par
  himself a drink He looked at his watch; it was one-fifty. He had ten\par
  minutes to wait before the overseas operator would call him back; the bank\par
  Could be reached at two A.M., New York time. He carried his glass back to\par
  the chair in front of the window. On the way, he passed his FM radio. It\par
  was not where it usually was of course; that was why he noticed it. Ab-\par
  sently, he tamed it on. He liked music; it soothed him\par
  But it was words, not music, that he, heard. IUe rat-tat-tatting beneath\par
  an announcees voice indicated one of those "all-news" stations. 1'he dial\par
  had been changed. He. should have known. Nothing is as it was for you....\par
  Something being said on the radio caught his attention. He tamed quickly\par
  in the chair, part of his drink spilling onto his trousers.\par
  1~.. police have cordoned off the hoters entrance& Our reporter, Richard\par
  Dunlop, is on the scene, calling in from our mobile umt. Come in, Richard.\par
  What have you learnedr\par
         THE HOLCROFT COVENANT  47\par
\par
  There was a burst of static followed by the voice of an excited newscaster.\par
  "ne man!s name was Peter Baldwin, John. He was an Englishman. Arrived\par
  yesterday, or at least "a when he registered at the St. Regis; the police\par
  are contacting the airlines for further information. As far as can be\par
  determined,-he was over here on vacation. There was no listing of a company\par
  on the hotel registry card."\par
  "When did they discover the body?"\par
  "About a half hour ago. A maintenance man went up to the room to check the\par
  telephone and found Mr. Baldwin sprawled out on the bed. The rumors here\par
  are wild and you don7t kriow what to believe, but the thing thaiVs stressed\par
  is the method of killing. Apparently, it was vicious, brutal. Baldwin was\par
  garroted, they said. A wire pulled through his throat An hysterical maid\par
  from the fourth floor was heard screammg -to the police that the room was\par
  drenched with~l\par
  "Was robbery the motive?" interrupted the anchorman, in the interests of\par
  taste.\par
  "We haven't been able to establish that. The police aren't talking. I\par
  gather they're waiting for someone from the British consulate to arrive."\par
  "Iliank you, Richard Dunlop. Well stay in touch.\par
  That was Richard Dunlop at the St. Regis Hotel, on Fifty-fifffi Street in\par
  Manhattan. To repeat, a brutal murder took place at one of New York's most\par
  fashionable hotels this morning. An Englishman named Peter Baldwin..."\par
  Holcroft shot out of the chair, lurched at the radio, and turned it off.\par
  He stood above it, breathing rapidly. He did not want to admit to himself\par
  that he had heard what he had just heard. It was not anything he had really\par
  considered; it simply was not possible.\par
  But it was possible. It was real; it had happened. It was death. The\par
  maniacs from thirty years age were not caricatures, not figures from some\par
  melodranuL They were vicious killers. And they were deadly serious.\par
  Peter Baldwin, Esq., had told him to cancel Geneva. Baldwin had interfered\par
  with the dream, with the covenant. And now be was dead, brutally killed\par
  with a wire through his throat.\par
  With difficulty, Noel walked back to the chair and sat down. He raised his\par
  glass to his lips and drank several\par
 48  THE 11OLCROFT COVENAW\par
\par
 long swallows of whiskey; the scotch did nothing for him. Ile pounding in\par
 his chest only accelerated.\par
  A flare of a matchl Across the courtyard, in the windowl There she wasl\par
  Silhouetted beyond the sheer curtains in a wash of dim light stood the\par
  blond-haired woman. She was daring across the way, staring at himl He got\par
  out of the chair, drawn hypnotically to the win. dow, his face inches from\par
  the panes of gIRSL The woman nodded her head; she was slowly nodding her\par
  head! She was telling him something. She was telling him that what he\par
  perceived was the truthl\par
  ... The blond woman you're talking about was Mrs. Palatyne. She died a\par
  month ago.\par
  A dead woman stood silhouetted in a window across the darkness and was\par
  sending him a terrible message. Oh, Christ, he was goins insanel\par
  Ile telephone rang; the bell terrified him. He held his breath and lunged\par
  at the phone; he could not let it ring again. It did awftd things to the\par
  silence.\par
  "Mr. Holcroft, this is the overseas operator. I have your call to Zurich.\par
  . .\par
  Noel listened in disbelief at the somber, accented voice from Switzerland.\par
  The man on the line was the manager of the Zurich branch of La Grande\par
  Banque de Genbve. A directeur~ he said twice, emphasizing his position.\par
  "We moum profoundly, Mr. Holcroft. We knew Herr Manfredi was not well, but\par
  we had no idea his illness had progressed so."\par
  "What are you talking about? What happened?"\par
  "A terminal disease affects individuals differently. Our colleague was a\par
  vital man- an energetic nisin- and when such men cannot function in their\par
  normal fashions, it often leads to despondency and great depression.-\par
  "What happened?'\par
  "It was suicide,- Mr. Holcroft. Herr Manfredi could not tolerate his\par
  incapacities.-\par
  "Suidder\par
  'Ibere's no point in speaking other than the truth. Fxnst threw himself\par
  out of his hotel window. It was mercifully quick. At ten o'clock, La\par
  Grande Banque will suspend all business for one minute of mourning and\par
  reflection."\par
  "Oh, my God..\par
         THE HOLCROPT COVENANT  49\par
  "However," concluded the voice in Zurich, "an of Herr Manfredi's accounts\par
  to which he gave his personal attention will be assumed by equally capable\par
  hands. We fully axpect---~"\par
  Noel hung up the phone, cutting off the man's words. Accounts ... will be\par
  assumed by equally capable hands. Business as usual; a man was killed, but\par
  the affairs of Swiss finance were not to be interrupted. And he was\par
  killed.\par
  Ernst Manfredi did not throw himself out of a hotel in Zurich. He was\par
  thrown out. Murdered by the men of Wolfsschanze.\par
  For God's sake, why? Then Holcroft remembered. Manfredi had dismissed the\par
  men of Wolfsschanze. He had told Noel the macabre threats were\par
  meaningless, the anguish of sick old men seeking atonement.\par
  That had been Manfredi's error. He had undoubtedly told his associates,\par
  the other directors of La Grande Banque, about the strange letter that had\par
  been delivered with the wax seals unbroken. Perhaps, in their presence, he\par
  had laughed at the men of Wolfuchanze.\par
  The matchl The flare of ligbtl Across the courtyard the woman in the\par
  window noddedl Again---as if reading his thoughts-she was confirming the\par
  truth. A dead woman was telling him he was rightl\par
  She turned and walked away; all light went out in the window.\par
  "Come backI Come backr Holcroft screamed, his hands on the panes of glass.\par
  "Who are you?"\par
  ne telephone beneath him buzzed. Noel stared at it, as if it were a\par
  terrible thing in an unfamiliar place; it was both. Trembling, he picked\par
  it up.\par
  "Mr. Holcroft, it's Jack. I think I may know what the hell happened up at\par
  your place. I mean, I didn!t think about it before, but it kinda bit me a\par
  few minutes ago."\par
  "What was itr\par
  "A couple of nights ago these two guys came In. Locksmiths. Mr.\par
  Silverstein, on your floor, was having his lock changed. Louie told me\par
  about it so I knew it was okay. Then I began to think. Why did they come\par
  at night? I mean, what with overtime and everything, why didn't they come\par
  in the daytime? So I just called Louie at home. He said they came\par
  yesterday. So who the hell were those other guys."\par
 50  THE HOLCROPT COVENANT\par
\par
  "Do you remember anything about them?"\par
  "You're damned right I dol One of tkem in particular. You could pick him\par
  out in a crowd at the Gardent He had---.r\par
  There was a loud, sharp report over the line.\par
  A gunshot!\par
  It was followed by a crash. The telephone in the lobby had been droppedl\par
  Noel slammed down the receiver and ran to the door, yanking it open with\par
  such force that it crashed into a framed sketch on the wall, smasking the\par
  glass. There was no time to consider the elevator. He mced down the stairs,\par
  his mind a blank, afraid to think, concentrating only on speed and balance,\par
  hoping to God he would not trip on the steps. He reached the landing and\par
  bolted through the lobby door.\par
  He stared in shock. The worst had happened. lack the doorman was arched\par
  back over the chair, blood pouring out of his neck. He had been shot in the\par
  throat\par
  He had interfered. He had been about to identify one of the men of\par
  Wolfsschanze and he had been killed for it.\par
  Baldwin, Manfredi . . . an innocent doorman. Dead.\par
  ... all those who interfere will be stopped... Any who stand in your way,\par
  who try to dissuade you, who try to deceive you ... will be eliminated.\par
  ... As you and yours will be should you hesitatel Or fail. ~\par
  Manfredi had asked him if he really had a choice. He did not any longer.\par
  He was surrounded by death.\par
               5\par
\par
 Althene Holcroft sat behind the desk in her study and glared at the words of\par
 the letter she held in her handL Her chiseled, angular features-the high\par
 cheekbones, the aquiline nose, the wide-set eyes beneath arched, defined\par
 brows-were as taut, as rigid, as her posture in the chair. Her thin,\par
 aristocratic lips were tight; her breathing was steady, but each breath was\par
 too controlled, too deep, for normalcy. She read Heinrich Clausen's letter\par
 as one studying a statistical report that contradicted information\par
 previously held to be incontrovertible.\par
  Across the room, Noel stood by a curving window that looked out on the\par
  rolling lawn and gardens behind the Bedford Hills house. A number of shrubs\par
  were covered with burlap; the air was cold, and the morning frost produced\par
  intermittent patches of light gray on the green grass.\par
  Holcroft turned from the scene outside and looked at his mother, trying\par
  desperately to conceal his fear, to control the occasional trembling that\par
  came upon him when he thought about last night. He could not allow the\par
  terror he felt to be seen by his mother. He wondered what thoughts were\par
  going through her head, what memories were triggered by the sight of the\par
  handwritten words in blue ink put down by a man she once had loved, then\par
  had grown to despise. Whatever she was thinking, it would remain private\par
  until she chose to speak. Althene communicated only that which she cared\par
  to convey deliberately.\par
  She seemed to sense his gaze and raised her eyes to his, but only briefly.\par
  She returned to the letter, allowing a briefer moment to brush away a stray\par
  lock that had fallen from the gray hair that framed her face. Noel wandered\par
  aimlessly toward the desk, glancing at the bookcases and photographs on the\par
  wall. The room reflected the owner, he mused. Graceful, even elegant; but,\par
  withal,\par
               51\par
 52  THE HOLCROFT COVENANT\par
\par
 there. was a pervading sense of activity. The photographs showed men and\par
 women on horses at the hunt, in sailboats in rough weather, on skis in\par
 mountain snow. There was no denying it: There was an undercurrent of mascu-\par
 linity in tins very feminine room. It was his mother's study, her sanctuary\par
 where she repaired for private moments of consideration. But it could have\par
 belonged to a Msin-\par
  He sat down in the leather chair in front of the desk and lighted a\par
  cigarette with a gold ColibrL a parting gift from a young lady who had\par
  moved out of his apartment a month ago. His hand trembled again; he gripped\par
  the lighter as tightly as he could.\par
  'Tkaes a dreadful habit," said Althene, her eyes remaining on the letter.\par
  "I thought you were going to give it UP."\par
  "I have. A number of timee\par
   ,mark Twain said that. At least be original.-\par
  Holcroft shifted his position in the chair, feeling awkward. -YoWve read\par
  it several times now. What do YOU thinkro\par
  "I dont know what to tbink~" said Althene, placing the letter on the desk\par
  in front of her. "He wrote it; ifs his handwriting, his way of expressing\par
  himself. Arrogant even in remorse."\par
  "You agree it's remorse thenT'\par
  "It would appear so. On the surface, at any rateI'd want to know a great\par
  deal mom I have a number of questions about this extraordinary financiat\par
  undertaking M beyond anything conceivable."\par
   Questions lead to other questions, mother. The men In Geneva don't want\par
   that."\par
  "Does it matter what they want? As I understand you, although you!re being\par
  elliptical, they're asking YOU to give up a minimum of six months of Your\par
  life and PrObably a good deal more."\par
  Again, Noel felt awkward. He bad decided not to show ker the document from\par
  La Grande Banque. If she was adamant about seeing it, he could always\par
  produce it. if she was not it was better that way; the less she knew, the\par
  better. He had to keep her from the men of Wolfsschanze. He had not the\par
  slightest doubt Althene would interfere.\par
   rm not holding back any of the essentials," he said.\par
         TEE HOLCROFT COVENANT  53\par
\par
  "I didn't say you were. I said you were ellipticaL You refer to a man in\par
  Geneva you won't identify; you speak of conditions you only half describe,\par
  the oldest children of two families you woift name. You!re leaving out a\par
  great deal."\par
  "For your own good."\par
  'Ibars condescending and, considering this letter, very insulting~"\par
  "I didn't mean to be either." Holcroft leaned foiward. "No one wants that\par
  bank account even remotely connected with you. You've read that letter; you\par
  know what's involved. Tkousands and thousands of people, hundreds of\par
  millions of dollm. Theres no way to tell who might hold you responsible.\par
  You were the wife who told him the truth; you left him because he refused\par
  to accept it. When he finally realized that what you said was true, he did\par
  what he did. There may be men still alive who would kill you for that. I\par
  won't let you be put in that positiom"\par
  "I see.* Althene drew out the phrase, then repeated it as she rose from her\par
  chair and walked slowly across the room to the bay window. "Are you sure\par
  that's the concern the men in Geneva expressedr,\par
  "They-he-implied it, yes."\par
  "I suspect it was not the only concern."\par
  "No."\par
  "Shan I speculate on another?"\par
  Noel stiffened. It was not that he underestimated his mother's\par
  perceptions-he rarely did that-but, as always, he was annoyed when she\par
  verbalized them before he had the chance to state them himself.\par
  "I think ies obvious," he said.\par
  "Do your' Althene turned from the window and looked at him.\par
  "Ifs In the letter. If the sources of that account were made public,\par
  there!d be legal problems. Claims would be made against it in the\par
  international courts."\par
  "Yes." Ifis mother looked away. "It!s obvious, then. rm amazed you were\par
  allowed to tell me anything."\par
  Noel leaned back in the chair apprehensively, disturbed at Althene's words.\par
  "Why? Would you really do something?"\par
  "It's a &mptation," she answered, still gazing out. side. "I don't &mk one\par
  ever loses the desire to strike\par
 54  THE HOLCROFT COVENANT\par
\par
 back, to lash out at someone or Something thats caused great pain. Even if\par
 that hurt changed your life for the better. God knows mine-ours-was changed.\par
 From a hell to a level of happiness rd given up looking for."\par
   "Dadrasked Noel.\par
  Althene turned. "Yes. He risked more than you'll ever know protecting us.\par
  I'd been the fool of the world and he accepted the fool-and the fool's\par
  child. He gave us more than love; he gave us our fives again. He asked only\par
  love in return."\par
   "You've given him that"\par
  "I'll give it till I die. Richard Holcroft is the man I once thought\par
  Clausen was. I was so wrong, so terribly wrong. . . . The fact that\par
  Heinrich has been dead these many years doesn't seem to matter; the\par
  loathing won't go away. I do want to strike back."\par
  Noel kept his voice calm. He had to lead his mother away from her thoughts;\par
  the survivors of Wolfsschanze would not let her live. "You'd be striking\par
  back at the man you remember, not the man who wrote that letter. Maybe what\par
  you saw in him at first was really there. At the end, it came back to him."\par
   "That would be comforting, wouldn't it?"\par
  "I think it's true. The man who wrote that letter wasn't lying. He was in\par
  pain."\par
  "He deserved pain, he caused so much; he was the most ruthless man I ever\par
  met. But on the surface, so different, so ffiled with purpose. And-oh,\par
  God-what that purpose turned out to bel"\par
  "He changed, mother," interrupted Holcroft. "You were a part of that\par
  change. At the end of his life he wanted only to help undo what he'd done.\par
  He says it: 'Amends must be made.' Think what he did-what the three of them\par
  did-to bring that about."\par
  "I can't dismiss it; I know that. Any more than I can dismiss the words.\par
  I can almost hear him say them, but it's a very young man talking. A young\par
  man filled with purpose, a very young, wild girl at his side." Althene\par
  paused, then spoke again, clearly. "Why did you show me the letter? Why did\par
  you bring it all backr,\par
  "Because I've decided to go ahead. That means closing the office, traveling\par
  around a lot, eventually working .out of Switzerland for a number of\par
  months. As the man in\par
         T*1E HOLCROFT COVENANT   55\par
\par
 Geneva said, you wouldn't have accepted all that without asking a lot of\par
 questions. He was afraid you'd learn something damaging and do something\par
 rash."\par
  "At your expense?" asked Althene.\par
  "I guess so. He thought it was a possibility. He said those memories of\par
  yours were strong. 'Indelibly printed' were his words."\par
  "Indelibly," agreed Althene.\par
  "His point was that there were no legal solutions; that it was better to\par
  use the money the way it was intended to be used. To make those amends."\par
   "It's possible he was right. If it can be done. God\par
 knows it's overdue. What - ever Heinrich touched, very lit\par
 tle of value and truth was the result." Althene paused,\par
 her face suddenly strained. "You were the one exception.\par
 Perhaps this is the other."\par
  Noel got out of the chair and went to his mother. He took her by the\par
  shoulders and drew her to him. "rhat man in Geneva said you were\par
  incredible. You are."\par
  Althene pulled back. "He said that? 'Incredible'?"\par
  "Yes."\par
  "Ernst Manfredi," she whispered.\par
  "You know him?" asked Holcroft.\par
  "It's a name that goes back many years. He's still alive then."\par
  Noel did not answer her question. "How did you know it was he?"\par
  "A summer afternoon in Berlin. He was there. He helped us get out. You and\par
  1. He got us on the plane, gave me money. Dear God. . . ." Althene\par
  disengaged herself from her son's arms and walked across the room, toward\par
  t - he desk. "He called me 'incredible' then, that afternoon. He said they\par
  would hunt me, find me. Find us. He said he would do what he could. He told\par
  me what to do, what to say. An unimpressive little Swiss banker was a giant\par
  that afternoon. My God, after all these years. . ."\par
  Noel watched his mother, his astonishment complete. "Why didn't he say\par
  anything? Why didn't he tell me?"\par
  Althene turned, facing her son but not looking at him. She was staring\par
  beyond him, seeing things he could not see. "I think he wanted me to find\par
  out for myself. This way. He was not a man to call in old debts indis-\par
  criminately." She sighed. "I won't pretend the questions\par
 56  THE ROLCROFT COVENANT\par
\par
 are put to rest. I promise nothing. If I decide to take any action, IT give\par
 you ample warning. But for the time being I won't interfere."\par
  "Thafs kind of open ended, isn't itr\par
  "M the best you'll get. Those memories are, indeed, indelibly printed."\par
  "But for now you'll do nothing?"\par
  "You have my word. Ifs not lightly given, nor will it be lightly taken\par
  back."\par
  "What would change itT'\par
  "If you disappeared, for one thing."\par
  "IT stay in touch."\par
\par
  Althene Holcroft watched her son walk out of the room. Her face- o tense,\par
  so rigid, only moments ago -was relaxed. Her thin lips formed a smile; her\par
  wide eyes were reflective, in them a look of quiet satisfaction and\par
  strength.\par
  She reached for the telephone on her desk, pressed the single button 0,\par
  and seconds later spoke.\par
  "Overseas operator, please. rd like to place a call to Geneva,\par
  Switzerland."\par
\par
  He needed a professionally acceptable- reason to close up Holcroft,\par
  Incorporated. Questions of substance could not be asked. The survivors of\par
  Wolfsschanze were killers for whom questions were too easily construed as\par
  interference. He had to disappear legitimately.... But one did not\par
  disappear legitimately: One found plausible explanations that gave the\par
  appearance of legitimacy.\par
  The appearance of legitimacy.\par
  Sam Buonoventura.\par
  Not that Sam wasn't legitimate: He was. He was one of the best\par
  construction engineers in the business. But Sam had followed the sun so\par
  long he had blind spots. He was a fifty-year-old prufessional drifter, a\par
  City College graduate from Tremont Avenue, in the Bronx, who had found a\par
  life of instant gmtification in the warmer climes.\par
  A brief tour of duty in the Army Corps of Engineers had convinced\par
  Buonoventura that there was a sweeter, more generous world beyond the\par
  borders of the United States, preferably south of the Keys. AM one had to\par
  be was good-good in a job that was part of a larger job in\par
         THE HOLCROFT COVENANT  57\par
\par
 which a great deal of money was invested. And during the fifties and\par
 sixties, the construction explosion in Latin America and the Caribbean was\par
 such that it might have been created for someone like Sam. He built a\par
 reputation among corporations and governments as the building tyrant who got\par
 things done in the field.\par
  Once having studied blueprints, labor pools, and budgets, if Sam told his\par
  employers that a hotel or an airport or a dam would be operational within\par
  a given period of time, he was rarely in error beyond four percent. He was\par
  also an architect's dream, which meant that he did not consider himself an\par
  architect.\par
  Noel had worked with Buonoventura on two jobs outside the country, the\par
  first in Costa Rica, where if it had not been for Sam, Holcroft would have\par
  lost his life. The engineer had insisted that the well-groomed, courteous\par
  architect from the classy side of Manhattan learn to use a handgun, not\par
  just a hunting rifle from Abercrombie & Fitch. They were building a postal\par
  complex in the back country, and it was a far cry from the cocktail lounges\par
  of the Plaza and the Waldorf, and from San Jos6. Ile architect had thought\par
  the weekend exercise ridiculous, but courtesy demanded compliance.\par
  Courtesy, and Buonoventura's booming voice.\par
  By the end of the following week, however, the architect was profoundly\par
  grateful. Thieves had come down from the hills to steal construction\par
  explosives. Two men had raced through the camp at night, they'd crashed\par
  into Noel's shack as he slept. When they realized the explosives were not\par
  there one man had run outside, shouting instructions to his accomplices.\par
  "IMatemos el gringol"\par
  But the gringo understood the language. He reached his gun-the handgun\par
  provided by Sam Buonoventuraand shot his would-be killer.\par
  Sam had only one comment: "Goddamn. In some cultures I'd have to take care\par
  of you for the rest of your life,99\par
  Noel reached Buonoventura through a shipping company in Miami. He was in\par
  the Dutch Antilles, in the town of Willemstad, on the island of Curagao.\par
  "How the hell are you, Noley?" Sam shouted, over the phone. "Christ, it\par
  must be four, five yearsl Hows your pistol a~m?"\par
 58  THE HOLCROPT COVENANT\par
\par
  "HaveWt used it since the colinas, and never expect to use it again. How\par
  are things with you?"\par
  "These mothers got money to bum down here, so I'm lighting a few matches.\par
  You looking for work?"\par
  "No. A favor."\par
  "Name it."\par
  "I'm going to be out of the country for a number of months on private\par
  business. I want a r&son for not being in New York, for not being\par
  available. A reason that people won't question. I've got an idea, Sam, and\par
  wondered if you could help me make it work."\par
  "If were both thinking the same thing, sure I can."\par
  Tliey were thinking the same thing. It was not out of the ordinary for\par
  long-range projects in faraway places to employ consulting architects, men\par
  whose-names would not appear on schematics or blueprints but whose skills\par
  would be used. The practice was generally confined to those areas where"the\par
  hiring of native talent was a question of local pride. The inherent\par
  problem, of course, was that all too frequently the native talent lacked\par
  sufficient training and experience. Investors covered their risks by\par
  employing highly skilled outside professionals who corrected and amended\par
  the work of the locals, seeing the projects through to completion.\par
  "Have you got any suggestions?" Noel asked.\par
  "Hell, yes. Take your pick of half a dozen underdeveloped countries.\par
  Africa, South America, even some of the islands here in the Antilles and\par
  the Grenadines. The internationals are moving in like spiders, but the\par
  locals are still sensitive. The consulting jobs are kept separate and\par
  quiet; graft is soaring."\par
  "I don't want a job, Sam. I want a cover. Someplace I can narne, someone\par
  I can mention who'll back me up."\par
  "Why not me? I'll be buried in this motherlode for most of the year. Maybe\par
  more. rve got two marinas and a full-scale yacht club to go to when the\par
  hotel's finished. I'm your man, Noley."\par
  "Mat's what I was hoping."\par
  "That's what I figured. I'll give you the particulars and you let me know\par
  where I can reach you in case any of your high-society friends want to\par
  throw a tea dance for you."\par
\par
  'Holcroft placed his two draftsmen and his secretary in new jobs by\par
  Wednesday. As he had suspected, it was\par
         TIRE HOLCROFT COVENANT   59\par
\par
 not difficult; they were good people. He made fourteen telephone calls to\par
 project-development executives at companies where his designs were under\par
 consideration, astonished to learn that of the fourteen, he was the leading\par
 contender in eight. Eightl If all came through, the fees would have totaled\par
 more. than he had earned during the past five years.\par
  But ndt two million dollars; he kept that in the back of his mind. And if\par
  it was not in the back of his mind, the survivors of Wolfsschanze were.\par
  The telephone-answering service was given specific instructions. Holcroft,\par
  Incorporated, was unavailable at the time for architectural projects. The\par
  company was involved in an overseas commission of considerable magnitude.\par
  If the caller would leave his name and number ...\par
  For those who pressed for further information, a post-office box in\par
  Curaqw, Netherlands Antilles, under the name of Samuel Buonoventura,\par
  Limited, was listed. And, for the few who insisted on a telephone number,\par
  Sam's was to be given.\par
  Noel had agreed to phone Buonoventura once a week; he would do the same\par
  with the answering service.\par
  By Friday morning, he had an uneasy feeling about his decision. He was\par
  taking himself out of a garden he had cultivated to walk into an\par
  unfamiliar forest.\par
  Nothing is as it was for you. Nothing can ever be the same.\par
  Suppose he could not find the Von 1"iebolt children. Suppose they were\par
  dead, their remains no more than graves in a Brazilian cemetery? They had\par
  disappeared five years ago in Rio de Janeiro; what made him think he could\par
  make them reappear? And if he could not, would the survivors of\par
  Wolfsschanze strike? He was afraid. But fear itself did not cover\par
  everything, thought Holcroft as he walked to the comer of Seventy-third\par
  Street and Third Avenue. There were ways to handle fear. He could take the\par
  Geneva document to the authorities, to the State Department, and tell them\par
  what he knew of Peter Baldwin and Ernst Manfredi and a doorman named Jack.\par
  He could expose the massive theft of thirty years ago, and grateful\par
  thousands over the world would see to it that he was protected.\par
  That was the sanest thing to do, but somehow sanity and self-protection\par
  were not so important. Not now.\par
 6o  TIM HOLCROPT COVENANT\par
\par
 Ilere was a man in agony thirty years ago. And that man was his rationale.\par
  He hailed a cab, struck by an odd thought, one he knew was in the deep\par
  recesses of his imagination. It was the "something else' that drove him\par
  into the unfamiliar forest.\par
  He was assuming a guilt that was not his. He was taking on the sins of\par
  Heinrich Clausen.\par
  Amends must be made.\par
  "Six-thirty Fifth Avenue, please," he said to the driver as he climbed into\par
  the cab. It was the address of the Brazilian Consulate.\par
  The hunt had begun.\par
               6\par
\par
 -Let me understand you, Mr. Holcroft," said the aging attachd, leaning back\par
 in his chair. "You say you wish to locate a family that you won't identify.\par
 You tell me this family immigrated to Brazil sometime in the forties and,\par
 according to the most recent information, dropped from sight several years\par
 ago. Is this correct?"\par
  Noel saw the bemused expression on the attach6s face and understood. It was\par
  a foolish game perhaps, but Hotcroft did not know any other one to play.\par
  He was not going to name the Von Tlebolts before he reached Brazil; he was\par
  not going to give anyone the chance to complicate further a search that had\par
  enough disadvantages at the start. He smiled pleasantly.\par
  I "I didn!t quite say that. I asked how such a family might be found, given\par
  those circumstances. I didn't say I was the one looking."\par
  'qhen it's a hypothetical question? Are you a journalistr'\par
  Holcroft considered the medium-level diplomat's question. How simple it\par
  would be to say yes; what a convenient explanation for the questions he\par
  would ask later. On the other hand, hed be flying to Rio de Janeiro in a\par
  few days. There were immigration cards to be #lled out, and a visa,\par
  perhaps; he did not know. A false answer now might become a problem later.\par
  "No, an architect."\par
  The attach6s eyes betrayed his surprise. "Then you'll visit Brasilia, of\par
  course. It is a masterpiece."\par
  "rd like to very much."\par
  "You speak Portuguese?"\par
  "A bit of Spanish. I've worked in Mexico. And in Costa Rica."\par
  "But we're straying,"          said the attach6, leaning for\par
 ward in his chair. "I asked you if you were a journalist,\par
                61\par
 62  THE HOLCROFT COVENANT\par
\par
 and you hesitated. You were tempted to say you were because it was\par
 expedient. Frankly, that tells me you are, indeed, the one looking for this\par
 family that has dropped from sight. Now, why not tell me the rest?"\par
  If he was going to consider lying in his search through this unfamiliar\par
  forest, thought Noel, he'd better learn to analyze his minor answers\par
  first. Lesson one: preparation.\par
  'Mere isn't that much to tell," he said awkwardly. "I'm taking a trip to\par
  your country and I promised a friend I'd look up these people he knew a\par
  long time ago." It was a variation on the truth and not a bad one, thought\par
  Holcroft. Perhaps that was why he was able to offer it convincingly.\par
  Lesson two: Base the lie in an aspect of truth.\par
  "Yet your . . . friend has tried to locate them and was unable to do so."\par
  "He tried from thousands of miles away. It's not the same.99\par
  "I daresay it isn't. So, because of this distance, and your friend's\par
  concern that there could be complications, shall we say, you'd prefer not\par
  to identify the family by name."\par
  "Mat's it."\par
  "No, it isn't. It would be far too simple a matter for an attorney to\par
  cable a confidential inquiry-of-record to a reciprocating law firm in Rio\par
  de Janeiro. It's done all the time. The family your friend wants to find\par
  is nowhere in evidence, so your friend wants you to trace them." The\par
  attach6 smiled and shrugged, as if he had delivered a basic lecture in\par
  arithmetic.\par
  Noel watched the Brazilian with growing irritation. Lesson three: Don't be\par
  led into a trap by pat conclusions casually stated. "You know something?"\par
  he said. "You're a very disagreeable fellow."\par
  "I'm sorry you think so," replied the attachS sincerely. "I want to be of\par
  help. That's my function here. I've spoken to you this way for a reason.\par
  You are not the first man, God knows, nor will you be the last, to look\par
  for people who came to my country 'sometime in the forties! I'm sure I\par
  don't have to amplify that statement. The vast majority of those people\par
  were Germans, many bringing to Brazil great sums of money transferred by\par
  compromised neutrsils. What I'm trying to say is simply put: Be careful.\par
         THE HOLCROFT COVENANT  63\par
\par
 Such people as you speak of do not disappear without\par
   to\par
 cause.\par
  "What do you mean?"\par
  "They have to, Mr. Holcroft. Had to. The Nuremberg Tribunals and the\par
  Israeli hunters aside, many possessed funds-in some cases, fortunes-that\par
  were stolen from conquered peoples, from their institutions, often firom\par
  their governments. Those funds could be reclaimed."\par
  Noel tensed the muscles of his stomach. There was a connection-abstract,\par
  even misleading under the cir cumstances, but it was them The Von Tiebolts\par
  were part of a theft so massive and complex it was beyond accounting\par
  procedures. But it could not be the reason they had vanished. Lesson four:\par
  Be prepared for unexpected coincidences, no matter how strained; be ready\par
  to conceal reactions.\par
  "I don't think the family could be involved in anything like that," he\par
  said.\par
  "But, of course, you're not sure, since you know so little.99\par
  "LeVs say rm sure. Now, all I want to know is how I go about finding\par
  them-or finding out what happened to them."\par
  "I mentioned attorneys."\par
  "No attorneys. rm an architect, remember? Lawyers are natural enemies; they\par
  take up most of our time" Holcroft smiled. "Whatever a lawyer can do, I can\par
  do faster by myself. I do speak Spanish- I'll get by in Portuguese.*9\par
  "I see." The attach6 paused while he reached for a box of thin cigars on\par
  his desk. He opened it and held it out for Holcroft, who shook his head.\par
  "Are you sure? It's Havana.-\par
  "I'm sure. I'm also pressed for time."\par
  "Yes, I know." The attach6 reached for a silver table lighter on the desk,\par
  snapped it, and inhaled deeply; the tip of the cigar glowed. He raised his\par
  eyes abruptly to Noel. "I can't convince you to tell me the name of this\par
  familyr'\par
  "Oh, for Christ's sake          Holcroft got up. He'd\par
 had enough; he'd find other sources.\par
  "Mase," said the Brazilian, "sit down, please. Just a minute or. two\par
  longer. The times not wasted, I assure YOU.\par
 64  THE HOLCROFT COVENANT\par
\par
  Noel saw the urgency in the attach6's eyes. He sat down. "What is it?"\par
  "La comunidad alemana. I use the Spanish you speak so well."\par
  "rho German community? There's a German community in Rio-is that what you\par
  mean?"\par
  "Yes, but it's not solely geographical. Theres an outlying district-the\par
  German barrio, if you will-but that is not what I refer to. rm speaking of\par
  what we can la otra cara de los alemanes. Can you understand thatr'\par
   "The 'other face'             what's underneath, below the\par
 German surface."\par
  "Precisely. 'The underside,' you might say. What makes them what they are;\par
  what makes them do what they do. It's important that you understand."\par
  "I think I do. I think you explained it. Most were Nazis getting out of\par
  the Nuremberg net, bringing in money that wasnt theirs; hiding, concealing\par
  identities. Naturally, such people would tend to stick t6gether."\par
  "Naturally," the Brazilian said. "But youd think after so many years\par
  there'd be greater assimilation."\par
  "Why? You work here in New York. Go down to the Lower East Side, or\par
  Mulberry Street or up to the Bronx. Enclaves of Italians, Poles, Jews.\par
  They've been here for decades. You're talking about twenty-five, thirty\par
  years. Tbars, not much."\par
  "rhere are similarities, of course, but its not the same~ believe me. The\par
  people you speak of in New York associate openly; they wear their\par
  heritages on their sleeves. It is not Me that in Brazil. The German\par
  community pretends to be assimilated, but it is not. In commerce, yes, but\par
  in very little else. There is a pervading sense of fear and anger. Too\par
  many have been hunted for too long; a thousand identities are concealed\par
  daily from everyone but themselves. They have their own hierarchy. Three\par
  or four families control the community; their huge Germanic estates dot\par
  our countryside. Of course, they call them Swiss or-Bavarian." Once more\par
  the attach6 paused. "Do you begin to grasp what I'm saying? The consul\par
  general win not say it; my government will not permit it. But I am far\par
  down the ladder. It is left to me. Do you understandr,\par
  Noel was bewildered. "Frankly, no. Nothing you've add surprises me. At\par
  Nuremberg they called it 'crimes against humanity., That kind of thing\par
  leads to a lot of\par
         THE HOLCROPT COVENANT  65\par
 guilt, and guilt breeds fear. Of course such people in a country that isnt\par
 their own would stay close to each oth-\par
 \par
  "Guilt does breed fear. And fear in turn leads to suspicion. Finally,\par
  suspicion gives birth to violence. -Mat's what you must understand. A\par
  stranger coming to Rio looking for Germans who have disappeared is under-\par
  taking a Potentially dangerous search. La otra cara de los alemanes. They\par
  protect each other." The attach6 picked up his cigar. "Give us the name,\par
  Mr. Holcroft. Let us look for these people."\par
  Noel watched the Brazilian inhale the smoke from his precious Havana. He\par
  was not sure why, but he felt suddenly uneasy. Don't be led into a trap by\par
  pat conclu. sions casually stated. . . . -1 can't. I think you!re exag-\par
  gemting, and obviously you won't help me." He stood UP.\par
  "Very well," said the Bnaan. "I'll tell you what you would End out for\par
  yourself. When you get to Rio de Janeiro, go to the Ministry of\par
  Immigration. if you have names and approximate dates, perhaps they can\par
  help you.-\par
  w1banks very much," sad Noel, turning toward the door.\par
\par
  The Brazilian walked rapidly out of the office into a large anteroom that\par
  served as a reception area. A young man sitting in an armchair quickly got\par
  to his feet at the sight of his superior.\par
  "You may have your office back now, Juan."\par
  "Tbank you, Excellency."\par
  IMe older man continued across the room, past a receptionist, to a pair of\par
  double doors. On the left panel was the great seal of the Repi6blica\par
  Federal de Brasil; on the right was a plaque with gold printing that read\par
 OFIC10 DO C6NSUL GENERAL.\par
  The consul general went inside to another, smaller anteroom that was his\par
  secretary's office. He spoke to the girl and walked directly to the door\par
  of his own office.\par
  "Get me the embassy. The ambassador, please. if hes not there, locate him.\par
  Inform him that it's a confidential matter; hell know whether he can talk\par
  or not."\par
  Brazil's highest-ranking diplomat in America's major city dosed the door,\par
  strode to his desk, and sat down. He picked up a sheaf of papers stapled\par
  together. The first sev-\par
   66  THE HOLCROPT COVENANT\par
\par
 eral pages were photocopies of newspaper stories, accounts of the killing on\par
 British Airways flight 591 from London to New York, and the subsequent\par
 discovery of the two murders on the ground. The lot two pages were copies of\par
 that aircrafts passenger manifest. The diplomat scanned the names: HoLcRovr,\par
 NOEL. DEP. OENEvA. BA *577. 0. LON. BA *591. x. NYC. He stared at the in-\par
 formation as if somehow relieved that it was still there.\par
  His telephone hummed; he picked it up. "Yes?"\par
  'M ambassador is on the line, sir."\par
  "fhank you." The consul general heard an echo, which meant the scrambler\par
  was in operation. "Mr. Ambassador'r'\par
  "Yes, GeraldG. What's so urgent and confidential?"\par
  "A few mmutes ago a man came up here asking how he might go about locating\par
  a family in Rio he had not been able to reach through the usual channels.\par
  His name is Holcroft. Noel Holcroft, an architect from New York city."\par
  "It means nothing to me," said the ambassador. "Should itr'\par
  "Only if you've recently read the list of passengers on the British Airways\par
  plane from London last Saturday."\par
  "Flight five-ninety-oner, The, ambassador spoke sharply.\par
  "Yes. He left that morning from Geneva on British Airways, and transferred\par
  at Heathrow to five-ninety-one."\par
  "And now he wants to locate people in Rio? Who are theyr'\par
  "He refused to say. I was the 'aftach6' he spoke with, naturally."\par
  "Naturally. Tell me everything. I'll cable London. Do you think irs\par
  possible-~ The ambassador paused.\par
  "Yes," the consul general said softly. "I think it's very possible he is\par
  looking for the Von Tiebolts."\par
  "Tell me everything," repeated the man in Washington. "Ihe British believe\par
  those killings were the work of the Imamou."\par
\par
  Noel felt a sense of dila vu as he looked around the lounge of the Braniff\par
  747. The colors were more vivid, the uniforms of the aircraft's personnel\par
  more fashionably cut. Otherwise, the plane seemed identical to that of\par
  British Airways flight 591. The difference was~in\par
         TIM HOLCROPT COVENANT  67\par
\par
 attitude. This was the Rio Run, that carefree holiday that was to begin in\par
 the sky and continue on the beaches of the Gold Coast.\par
  But this was to be no holiday, thought Holcroft, no holiday at all. The\par
  only climax awaiting him was one of discovery. The whereabouts or the\par
  nonwhereabouts of the family Von Mebolt.\par
  They'd been in the air for more than five hours. He had picked his way\par
  through a dismissable meal, slept through an even more dismissable film,\par
  and finally decided to go up to the lounge.\par
  He had put off going upstairs. The memory of seven days ago was still\par
  discomforting. The unbelievable had happened in front of his eyes; a man\par
  had been killed not four feet from where he'd been sitting. At one point\par
  he could have reached over and touched the writhing figure. Death had been\par
  inches away, unnatural death, chemical death, murder.\par
  Strychnine. A colorless crystalline alkaloid that caused paroxysms of\par
  unendurable pain. Why had it happened? Who was responsible and for what\par
  reason? The accounts were specific, the theories speculative.\par
  Two men had been physically close to the victim in the lounge of Flight 591\par
  from London. Either one could have admini te d the poison by way of the\par
  victim's drink; it was presumed one had. But again, why? According to the\par
  Port Authority police, there was no evidence that the two men had ever\par
  known Thornton. And the two men themselves-the suspected killers-had met\par
  their deaths by gunshot in a fuel truck on the ground. They had disappeared\par
  from the aircraft, from the sealedoff customs area, from the quarantined\par
  room, and themselves been murdered. Why? By whom?\par
  No one had any answers. Only questions. And then even the questions\par
  stopped. The story faded from the newspapers and the broadcasts as\par
  dramatically as it had appeared, as though a blackout had been called.\par
  Again, why? Again, who was responsible?\par
  "Irliat was scotch on the, rocks, wasn't it, Mr. HolCroft."\par
  The d6jil vu was complete. The words were the same but spoken by another.\par
  The stewardess above him, placing the glass on the round Formica table, was\par
  attractive--as the stewardess in Flight 591 had been attractive. The\par
 68  THE HOLCROFT COVENANT\par
\par
 look in her eyes had that same quality of directness he remembered from the\par
 girl on British Airways. The words, even to the use of his name, were\par
 uttered in a similar tone, only the accent varied. It was all too much\par
 alike. Or was his mind-his eyes, his ears, his senses--preoccupied with the\par
 memory of seven days ago?\par
  He thanked the stewardess, almost afraid to look at her, thinking that any\par
  second he would hear a scream beside him and watch a man in uncontrollable\par
  agony lunge out of his seat, twisting in spastic convulsions over the\par
  divider.\par
  Then Noel realized something else, and it discomforted him further. He was\par
  sitting in the same seat he had occupied during those terrifying moments\par
  on Flight 591. In a lounge constructed identically with that lounge a week\par
  ago. It was not really unusual; he preferred the location and often sat\par
  there. But now it seemed macabre. His lines of sight were the same, the\par
  lighting no different now from the way it was then.\par
  That was scotch on the rocks, wasn't it, Mr. Holcroft?\par
  An outstretched hand, a pretty face, a glass.\par
  Images, sounds.\par
  Sounds. Raucous, drunken laughter. A man with too much alcohol in him,\par
  losing his balance, falling backward over the rim of the chair. His\par
  compamon reeling in delight at the sight of his unsteady friend. A third\par
  n --the man who would be dead in moments-trying too hard to be a part of\par
  the revelry. Anxious to please, wanting to join. An attractive stewardess\par
  pouring whisky, smiling, wiping the bar on which two drinks had been\par
  reduced to one because one had been spilled, rushing around the counter to\par
  help a drunken passenger. The third anxious man, embarrassed perhaps, still\par
  wanting to play with the big boys, reaching....\par
  I A glass. The glassl The single, remaining glass on the bar.\par
  The third man had reached for that glassl\par
  It was scotch on the rocks. 1he drink intended for the passenger sitting\par
  across the lounge at the small Formica table. Oh, my God! thought Holcroft,\par
  the images racing back and forth in sequence in his mind's eye. The drink\par
  on the bar-the drink a stranger named 71ornton had taken-had been meant for\par
  himl\par
  The strychnine had been meant for himl The twist-         THE HOLCROFT COVENANT  69\par
\par
 Ing, horrible convulsions of agony were to be hisl The terrible death\par
 assigned to himl\par
  He looked down at the glass in front of him on the table; his fingers were\par
  around it.\par
  That was scotch on the rocks, wasn't W..\par
  He pushed the drink aside. Suddenly he could no longer stay at that table,\par
  remain in that lounge. He had to get away; he had to force the images out\par
  of his mind. They were too clear, too real, too horrible.\par
  He rose from the chair and walked rapidly, unsteadily, toward the\par
  staircase. The sounds of drunken laughter weaved in and out between an\par
  unrelenting scream of torment that was the screech of sudden death. No one\par
  else could hear those sounds, but they pounded in his head.\par
  He lurched down the curving staircase to the deck below. The light was dim;\par
  several passengers were reading under the beams of tiny spotlights, but\par
  most were asleep.\par
  Noel was bewildered. The hammering in his ears would not stop, the images\par
  would not go away. He felt the need to vomit, to expunge the fear that had\par
  settled into his stomach. Where was the toilet? In the galley ... behind\par
  the galley? Beyond the curtain; that was it. Or was it? He parted the\par
  curtain.\par
  Suddenly, his eyes were drawn down to his right, to the front seat of the\par
  747's second section. A man had stirred in his sleep. A heavyset man whose\par
  face he had seen before. He did not recall where, but he was sure of itl\par
  A face creased in panic, racing by, close to his. What was it about the\par
  face? Something had made a brief but strong impression. What was it?\par
  The eyebrows, that was itl Thick eyebrows, the coiled, matted hair an odd\par
  mixture of black and white. Salt-and-pepper eyebrows; where was it? Why did\par
  the sight of those strangely arresting brows trigger obscure memories of\par
  another act of violence? Where was it? He could not remember, and because\par
  he could not, he felt the blood rushing to his head. The pounding grew\par
  louder; his temples throbbed.\par
  Suddenly, the man with the thick, coiled eyebrows woke up, somehow aware\par
  that he was being stared at. Their eyes locked; recognition was absolute.\par
  And there was violence in that recognition. But of what? When? Where?\par
   Holcroft nodded awkwardly, unable to think- The\par
 70  THE HOLCROFT COVENANT\par
\par
 pain in his stomach was knifelike; the sounds in his head were now cracks of\par
 thunder. For a moment he forgot where he was; then he remembered and the\par
 images returned. The sights and sounds of a killing that but for an accident\par
 would have claimed his life.\par
  He had to get back to his seat. He had to control himself, to stop the pain\par
  and the thunder and the pounding in his chest. He turned and walked quickly\par
  beyond the curtain, past the galley, up the aisle to his seat.\par
  He sat down in the semidarkness, grateful there was no one beside him. He\par
  pressed his head into the rim of the chair and closed his eyes, trying with\par
  all his concentration to rid his mind of the terrible sight of a grotesque\par
  face, screaming away the last few seconds of life. But he could not.\par
  That face became his face.\par
  Then the features blurred, as if the flesh were melting, only to be formed\par
  again. Thi face that now came into focus was no one he recognized. A\par
  strange, angular face, parts of which seemed familiar, but not as a whole.\par
  involuntarily, he gasped. He had never seen that face but suddenly he knew\par
  it. Instinctively. It was the face of Heinrich Clausen. A man in agony\par
  thirty years ago. The unknown father with whom he had his covenant.\par
  Holcroft opened his eyes, which stung from the perspiration that had rolled\par
  down his face. There was another truth and he was not sure he wanted to\par
  recognize it. The two men who had tried to W him with strychnine had\par
  themselves been murdered. They had interfered.\par
  The men of Wolfsschanze had been aboard that plane.\par
               7\par
\par
 The clerk behind the desk of the P6rto Alegre Hotel pulled Holcroft's\par
 reservation from the file. A small yellow message envelope was stapled to\par
 the back of the card. The clerk tore it off and handed it to Noel.\par
  "This came for you shortly past seven o'clock this evening, senhor."\par
  Holcroft knew no one in Rio de Janeiro, and had told no one in New York\par
  where he was going. He ripped open the flap and drew out the message. It\par
  was from Sam Buonoventura. He was to return the overseas call as soon as\par
  possible, regardless of the hour.\par
  Holcroft looked at his watch; it was nearly midnight. He signed the\par
  register and spoke-as casually as he could, his mind on Sam.\par
  "I have to telephone Curagao. Will there be any trouble at this hour?"\par
  The clerk seemed mildly offended. "Certainly not with our telefonistas,\par
  senhor. I cannot speak for Curagao."\par
  The origins of the difficulty notwithstanding, it was not until\par
  one-fifteen in the morning that he heard Buonoventura's rasping voice over\par
  the line.\par
  "I think you've got a problem, Noley."\par
  "I've got more than one. What is it?"\par
  "Your answering service gave my number to this cop in New York, a\par
  Lieutenant Miles; he's a detective. He was hot as hell. Said you were\par
  supposed to inform the police if you left town, to say nothing about\par
  leaving the country."\par
  Christ, he had forgotten! And now he understood just how vital those\par
  instructions were. The strychnine was meant for himl Had the police\par
  reached the same conclusion?\par
  "What did you tell him, Sam?"\par
  "Got hot myself. It's the only way to handle angry\par
               71\par
 72  THE HOLCROFT COVENANT\par
\par
 cops. I told him you were off in the out4slands doing a survey for a\par
 possible installation Washington was interested in. A little bit north, were\par
 not too far from the Canal Zone; it could mean anything. Nobody talks."\par
  "Did he accept that?"\par
  "Hard to tell. He wants you to call him. I bought you time., though. I said\par
  you radioed in this afternoon and I didn't expect to hear from you for\par
  three or four days, and I couldn't make contact. Thats when he yelled like\par
  a cut bull."\par
  "But did he buy it?"\par
  "What else could he do? He thinks we're all fuckingA stupid down here, and\par
  I agreed with him. He gave me two numbers for you. Got a pencil?"\par
  64 Go ahead."\par
  Holcroft wrote down the numbers--a Port Authority police telephone and\par
  Miles's home-thanked Buonoventura, and said hed be in touch next week.\par
  Noel had unpacked during the interminable wait for the Curacao connection.\par
  He sat in a cane-backed chair in front of the window and looked out at the\par
  nightwhite beach and the dark waters beyond, reflecting the bright half\par
  moon. Below, on that isolated section of the street bordering the ocean\par
  walkway, were the curving, black-and-white parallel lines that signified\par
  the Copacabana, the golden coast of Guanabara. There was an emptiness about\par
  the scene that had nothing to do with its being deserted. It was too\par
  perfect, too pretty. He would never have designed it that way; there was\par
  an absence of character. He focused his eyes on the windowpanes. There was\par
  nothing to do now but think and rest and hope he could sleep. Sleep had\par
  been difficult for the past week; it would be more difficult now. Because\par
  he knew now what he had not known before: Someone had tried to kill him.\par
  The knowledge produced an odd sensation. He could not believe that there\par
  was someone who wanted him dead. Yet someone had to have made that\par
  decision, had to have issued the order. Why? What had he done? Was it\par
  Geneva? His covenant?\par
  We're dealing in millions. Those were not only the dead Manfredi's words;\par
  they were his warning. It was the only possible explanation. The\par
  information had got out, but there was no way to know how far it had\par
  spread,\par
         THE HOLCROPT COVENANT  73\par
\par
 or who was affected by it, who infuriated. Or the identity of the unknown\par
 person-or persons-who wanted to stop the release of the Geneva account, to\par
 consign it to the litigations of the international courts.\par
  Manfredi was right: The only moral solution was found in carrying out the\par
  intent of the document drawn up by three extraordinary men in the midst of\par
  the devastation their own monster had created. Amends must be made. ft ww\par
  the credo Heinrich Clausen believed in; it was honorable; it was right. In\par
  their misguided way, the men of Wolfsschanze understood.\par
  Noel poured himself a drink, walked over to the bed, and sat down on the\par
  edge, staring at the telephone. Next to it were the two numbers written on\par
  a hotel message pad, given to him by Sam Buonoventura. They were his links\par
  to Lieutenant Miles, Port Authority police. But Holcroft could not bring\par
  himself to call. He had begun the hunt; he had taken the first step in his\par
  search for the family of Wilhelm von T"tebolt. Step, helll It was a giant\par
  leap of four thousand air miles; he would not turn back.\par
  Tkere was so much to do. Noel wondered whether he was capable of doing it,\par
  whether he was capable of making his way through the unfamiliar forest.\par
  He felt his eyelids grow heavy. Sleep was,coming and he was grateful for\par
  it. He put down the glass and kicked off his shoes, not bothering with the\par
  rest of his clothes. He fell back on the bed and for several seconds stared\par
  at the white ceiling. He felt so alone, yet knew he wasn't. There was a man\par
  in agony, from thirty years ago, crying out to him. He thought about that\par
  man until sleep came.\par
\par
  Holcroft followed the translator into the dimly lit, windowless cubicle.\par
  Their conversation had been brief; Noel had sought specific information.\par
  The name was Von Tiebolt; the family, German nationals. A mother and two\par
  children-a daughter and a son-had immigrated to Brazil on or about June 15,\par
  1945. A third child, another daughter, had been born several months later,\par
  probably in Rio de Janeiro. The records had to contain some informatiori.\par
  Even if a false name was used, a simple crosscheck of the weeks\par
  involved-two or three either way -would certainly unearth a pregnant woman\par
  with two children coming into the country If them were more\par
 74  THE HOLCROPT COVENANT\par
\par
 than, one, it was his problem to trace them. At least a name, br names,\par
 would surface.\par
  No, it was not an official inquiry. There were no criminal charges; there\par
  was no seeking of revenge for crimes going back thirty years. On the\par
  contrary, it was "a benign search."\par
  Noel knew that an explanation would be asked of him, and he remembered one\par
  of the lessons learned at the consulate in New York: Base the lie in an\par
  aspect of truth. The family Von Tiebolt had relations in the United States,\par
  went the lie. People who had immigrated to America in the twenties and\par
  thirties. Very few were left, and there was a large sum of money involved.\par
  Surely, the officials at the Ministirio do Imigracdo would want to help\par
  find the inheritors. It was entirely possible that the Von Tiebolts would\par
  be grateful . . . and he, as the intermediary, would certainly make known\par
  their cooperation.\par
  Ledgers were brought out. Hundreds of photostats from another era were\par
  studied. Faded, soiled copies of documents, so many of which were obviously\par
  false papers purchased in Bern and Zurich and Lisbon. Passports. . But\par
  there were no documents relating to the Von Mebolts, no descriptions of a\par
  pregnant woman with two children entering Rio de Janeiro during the month\par
  of June or July in 1945. At least, none resembling the wife of Wilhelm von\par
  Tiebolt. Ilere were pregnant women, even pregnant women with children, but\par
  none with children that could have been Von Tiebolt's. According to Man-\par
  fredi, the daughter, Gretchen, was twelve or thirteen years old; the son,\par
  Johann, ten. Every one of the women entering Brazil during those weeks was\par
  accompanied either by a husband or a false husband, and where there were\par
  children, none--not one-was more than seven years of age.\par
  This struck Holcroft as being not only unusual but mathematically\par
  impossible. He stared at the pages of faded ink, at the often illegible\par
  entries made by harried immigration officials thirty-odd years ago-\par
  Something was wrong; his architect's eye was troubled. He had the feeling\par
  he was studying blueprints that had not been finished, that were filled\par
  with minute alterations-tiny lines erased and changed, but very delicately,\par
  so,as not to disturb the larger design.\par
         THE HOLCROFT COVPNANT  75\par
\par
  Erased and changed. Chendcally erased, delicately changed. That was what\par
  bothered himl The birthdatesl Page after page of miniature figures, digits\par
  subtly alteredl A 3 became an 8, a I a 9, a 2 a 0, the curve retained, a\par
  line drawn down, a zero added. Page after page in the ledgers, for the\par
  weeks of June and July of 1945, the birthdates of all the children\par
  entering Brazil had been changed so that none was born. prior to 19381\par
  It was a painstakingly clever ruse, one that had to be thought out\par
  carefully, deliberately. Stop the hunt at the source. But do it in a way\par
  that appeared above suspicion. Small numbers faithfully-d hastily-recorded\par
  by unknown immigration personnel more than thirty years ago. Recorded from\par
  documents, the majority of which had been long since destroyed, for most\par
  were false. There was no way to substantiate, to confirm or deny the ac-\par
  curacy. Time and conspiracies had made that impossible. Of course there\par
  was no one resembling the Von Tieboltsl Good Lord, what a deceptionl\par
  Noel pulled out his lighter-, its flame would provide more fight on a page\par
  where his eye told him there were numerous minute alterations.\par
  "Senhorl That is forbiddenl" The harsh command was delivered in a loud\par
  voice by the translator. "Thow old pages catch fire easily We cannot take\par
  such risks."\par
  Holcroft understood. It explained the inadequate light, the windowless\par
  cubicle. "I'll bet you can't," he said- extinguishing kis fighter. "And I\par
  suppose these ledgers ~~t be removed from this room"\par
  "No, senhor."\par
  "And, of course, there are no extra lamps around, and you don't have a\par
  flashlight. Isn't that right?"\par
  "Senhor," interrupted the translator, his tone now courteous, even\par
  deferential. "We have spent nearly three hours with you. We have tried to\par
  cooperate fully, but as I'm sure you!re aware, we have other duties to\par
  perform. So, if you have finished. . ."\par
  "I think you made sure of that before I started," broke in Holcroft. "Yes,\par
  rm finished. Here."\par
\par
  He walked in the bright afternoon sunlight, trying to make sense out of\par
  things, the soft ocean breezes carew ing his face, calming his anger and\par
  his frustration. He strolled on the white boardwalk overlooking the\par
  iminacu\par
 76  THE HOLCROPT COVENANT\par
\par
 late sand of Guanabara Bay. Now and then he stopped and leaned against the\par
 railing, watching the grown-up children at their games. The beautiful\par
 people, sunning and stunning. Grace and arrogance coexisted with artifice.\par
 Money was everywhere, evidenced by the golden, oiled bodies, too often too\par
 perfectly formed, too pretty, all flaws concealed. But again, where was\par
 character? It was somehow absent on the Copacabana this afternoon.\par
  He passed that section of the beach that fronted his hotel and glanced up\par
  at the windows, trying to locate his room. For a moment he thought he had\par
  found it, then realized he was wrong. He could see two figures behind the\par
  glass, beyond the curtains.\par
  He returned to the railing and lit a cigarette. The lighter made him think\par
  about the thirty-year-old ledgers so painstakingly doctored. Had they been\par
  altered just for him? Or had there been others over the years looking for\par
  the Von Tiebolts? Regardless of the answer, he had to find another source.\par
  Or other sources.\par
  La'comunidad alemana. Holcroft recalled the words of the attach6 in New\par
  York. He remembered the man's saying there were three or four families who\par
  were the arbiters of the German community. It followed that such men had\par
  to know the most carefully guarded secrets. Identities are concealed every\par
  day. . . . A stranger coming to Rio looking for Germans who have\par
  disappeared is undertaking a potentially dangerous search . . . "la otra,\par
  cars de los alemanes." They protect each other.\par
  There was a way to eliminate the danger, Noel thought. It was found in the\par
  explanation he had given the translator at the Ministry of Immigration. He\par
  traveled a great deal, so it was plausible that someone somewhere had\par
  approached him, knowing he was flying to Brazil, and asked him to locate\par
  the Von Tiebolts. It had to be a person who dealt in legitimate\par
  confidentiality, a lawyer or a banker. Someone whose own reputation was\par
  above reproach. Without analyzing it deeply, Holcroft knew that whoever he\par
  decided upon would be the key to his explanation.\par
  An idea for a candidate struck him, the risks apparent, the irony not lost.\par
  Richard Holcroft, the only father he had ever known. Stockbroker, banker,\par
  naval officer . . . father. The man who had given a wild young\par
         THE HOLCROPT COVENANT  77\par
\par
 mother and her child a chance to live again. Without fear, without the\par
 stain.\par
  Noel looked at his watch. It was ten minutes past five-past three in New\par
  York. Midafternoon on a Monday. He did not believe in omens, but he had\par
  just come upon one. Every Monday afternoon Richard Holcroft went to the New\par
  York Athletic Club, where old friends played gentle squash and sat around\par
  thick oak tables in the bar and reminisced. Noel could have him paged, talk\par
  to him alone--ask for help. Help that was to be rendered confidentially,\par
  for confidentiality was not only the essence of the cover but the basis of\par
  his protection. Someone, anyone, had contacted Richard Holcroft-man of\par
  statureand asked him to locate a family named Von Tiebolt in Brazil.\par
  Knowing his son was going to Rio, he quite logically asked his son to make\par
  inquiries. It was a confidential matter; it would not be discussed. No one\par
  could turn away the curious with greater authority than Dick HoIcroft.\par
  But Althene was not to be told: That was the hardest part of the request.\par
  Dick adored her; there were no secrets between them. But his father-damn\par
  it, stepfather -would not refuse him if the request was based in genuine\par
  need. He never had.\par
  He crossed the smooth marble floor of the hotel lobby toward the bank of\par
  elevators, oblivious of sights and sounds, his concentration on what he\par
  would say to his stepfather. As a result, he was startled when an obese\par
  American tourist tapped his shoulder.\par
  'vMey calling you, Mac?" The man pointed toward the front desk.\par
  Behind the counter the clerk was looking at Noel. In his hand was the\par
  familiar yellow message envelope; he gave it to a bellhop, who started\par
  across the lobby.\par
  The single name on the slip of paper was unknown to him: cARARRA. There was\par
  a telephone number below, but no message, Holcroft was bewildered. The lark\par
  of a message was unusual; it was not the Latin way of doing things. Senhor\par
  Cararra could phone again; he had to reach New York. He had to build\par
  another cover.\par
  Yet, in his room, Holcroft read the name again: cARmmA. His curiosity was\par
  aroused. Who was this Cararra that he expected to be called back on the\par
  basis, of a\par
 78  THE HOLCROFT COVENANT\par
\par
 name alone, a name the man knew meant nothing to Holcroft? In South American\par
 terms it was discourteous to the point of being insulting. His stepfather\par
 could wait a few minutes while he found out. He dialed the number.\par
  Cararra was not a man but a woman, and from thesound of her low, strained\par
  voice she was a frightened woman. Her English was passable but not good;\par
  it did not matter. Her message was as clear as the fear she conveyed.\par
  "I cannot talk now, senhor. Do not call this number again. It is not\par
  necessary."\par
  "You left it with the operator. What did you expect me to do?"\par
  "It was a ... trro."\par
  "Yerro? Mistake?"\par
  "Yes. A mistake. I will call you. We will call."\par
  "What about? Who are you?"\par
  Was tardel" The voice descended to a harsh whisper and was abruptly gone\par
  with the click of the line.\par
  Mas tarde ... mas tarde. Later. The woman would call him again. Holcroft\par
  felt a sudden hollowness in his stomach, as sudden as the abrupt\par
  disappearance of the frightened whisper. He could not recall when he had\par
  heard a woman's voice so filled with fear.\par
  That she was somehow connected with the missing Von Tiebolts was the first\par
  thought that came to his mind. But in what way? And how in God's name would\par
  she know about him? The feeling of dread came over him again . . . and the\par
  image of the horrible face contorted in death, thirty thousand feet in the\par
  air. He was being observed; strangers were watching hinL\par
  The whine of the telephpne receiver interrupted his thoughts; he had\par
  forgotten to hang up. He depressed the button, released it, and made the\par
  call to New York. He needed his protection quickly; he knew that now.\par
  He stood by the window, staring out at the beachfront, waiting for the\par
  operator to call him back. There was a flash of light from the street\par
  below. The chrome of a car grille had caught the rays of the sun and re-\par
  flected them skyward. The car had passed that section of the boardwalk\par
  where he had been standing only minutes ago. Standing and absently,\par
  glancing up at the hotel windows, trying to spot his room.\par
  The windows. . . . The angle of sight. Noel moved\par
         THE HOLCROPT COVENANT  79\par
\par
 closer to the petnes and studied the diagonal line from the spot below-where\par
 he had been standing--to where he stood now. His architect's eye was a\par
 practiced eye; angles did not deceive him. Too, the windows were not that\par
 close to one another, befitting the separation of rooms in an oceanfront\par
 hotel on the Copacabana. He looked up at this window, thinking it was not\par
 his room because he saw figures inside, behind the glass. But it was his\par
 room. And there had been people inside.\par
  He walked to his closet and stood looking at his clothes. He trusted his\par
  memory for detail as much as he trusted his eye for angular fines. He\par
  pictured the closet where he had changed clothes that morrung. He had\par
  fallen asleep in the suit he had wom from New York. His light-tan slacks\par
  had been on the far right, almost against the closet wall. It was habit:\par
  trousers on the right, jackets on the left. The slacks were still on the\par
  right, but not against the wall. Instead, they were several inches toward\par
  the center. His dark-blue blazer was in the center, not on the left side.\par
   His clothes had been searched.\par
  He crossed to the bed and his open attach6 case. It was his office when he\par
  traveled; he knew every millimeter of space, every compartment, the\par
  position of every item in every slot. He did not have to look long.\par
   His attach6 case had been searched as well.\par
  The telephone rang, the sound an intrusion. He picked it up and heard the\par
  voice of the Athletic CluWs operator, but he knew he could not now ask for\par
  Richard Holcroft; he could not involve him. Things were suddenly too\par
  complicated. He had to think them through.\par
  "New York Athletic Club. Hello? Hello? ... Hello, Rio operator? Theres no\par
  one on the line, Rio. Hello? New York Athletic Club. . . "\par
  Noel replaced the receiver. He had been about to do something crazy. His\par
  room had been searchedl In his need for a cover in Rio de Janeiro, he had\par
  been about to lead someone directly to the one person closest to his\par
  mother, once the wife of Heinrich Clausen. What had he been thinking of?\par
  And then he realized that nothing was wasted. Instead, another lesson had\par
  been learned. Carry out the lie logically.- then reexamine it, and use the\par
  most credible part. If he could invent a reason for such a man as\par
 80      HOLCROPT COVENANT\par
\par
 Richard Holcroft to conceal the identity of those seeking the Von Tiebolts,\par
 he could invent the man himself.\par
  Noel was breathing hard. He had almost committed a terrible error, but he\par
  was beginning to know what to look for in the unfamiliar forest. The paths\par
  were lined with traps; he had to keep his guard up and move cautiously. He\par
  could not permit himself a mistake like the one he had nearly made. He had\par
  come very close to risking the life of the father that was, for one he had\par
  never ktiown.\par
  Very little of value or truth ever came from anything he touched. His\par
  mother's words, and like Manfredi's, meant as a warning. But his\par
  mother-unlike Manfredi-was wrong. Heinrich Clausen was as much a victim as\par
  he was a villain of his time. The anguished letter he had written while\par
  Berlin was falling confirmed it, and what he had done confirmed it.\par
  Somehow his son would prove it.\par
  La comunidad alemana. Tliree, four families in the German community, the\par
  arbiters who made irreversible decisions. One of them would be his source.\par
  And he knew exactly where to look.\par
\par
  Ile old, heavy-set man with thick jowls and steel-gray hair, cut short in\par
  the fashion of a Junker, looked up from the huge dining-room table at the\par
  intruder. He ate alone, no places set for family or guests. It seemed\par
  strange, for as the door was opened by the intruder, the voices of other\par
  people could be heard; there were family and guests in the la~ge house, but\par
  they were not at the table.\par
  "We have additional information on Clausen's son, Herr Graff," said the\par
  intruder, approaching the old man's chair. "You know about the Curagao\par
  communication. Two other calls were made this afternoon. One to the woman,\par
  Cararra, and the second to a men's club in New York."\par
  "The Cararras will do their job well," said Graff, his fork suspended, the\par
  puffed flesh around his eyes creased. "VAiat is this club in New York?"\par
  "A place called the New York Athletic Club. It is---~"\par
  -"I know what it is. A wealthy membership. Whom was he calling?"\par
  'The call was placed to the location, not to a person. Our people in New\par
  York are hying to find out."\par
         TIRE HOLCROFT COVENANT   81\par
\par
  The old man put down his fork. He spoke softly, insultingly. "Our people\par
  in New York are slow, and so are YOU. of\par
  "I beg your pardon?"\par
  "Undoubtedly among the members will be found the name of Holcroft. If so,\par
  ClauseWs son has broken his word; he's told Holcroft about Geneva. That is\par
  dangerous. Richard Holcroft is an old man, but he is not feeble. We always\par
  knew that if he lived long enough, he might be a stumbling block." Graff\par
  shifted his large head and looked at the intruder. 'qhe envelope 'arrived\par
  in Sesimbra; there is no excuse. The events of the other night had to be\par
  clear to the som Cable the Tinamou. I doift trust his associate here in\par
  Rio. Use the eagle code and ten him what I believe. Our people in New York\par
  will have another task. The elimination of a meddling old man. Richard\par
  Holcroft must be taken out. The Tinamou will demand it"\par
               8\par
\par
 Noel know what he was looking for: a bookstore that was more than a place to\par
 buy books. In every resort city there was always one major shop that catered\par
 to the reading requirements of a specific nationality. In this case, its\par
 name was A Livraria, Alemlo: the Germ- Bookshop. According to the desk\par
 clerk, it carried all the latest German periodicals, and Luftkansa flew\par
 newspapers in daily. That was the information Holcroft sought. Such a store\par
 would have accounts; someone there would know the established German\par
 families in Rio. If he could get just one or two names. . . . R was a place\par
 to start.\par
  Tke store was less dm ten minutes from the hotel. wrm an American\par
  architect," he said to the clerk, who was halfway up a ladder, rean-anging\par
  books on the top shelf. "I'm down here checking out the Bavarian influence\par
  on large residential komes. Do you have any material on the subjectr'\par
  "I didet know it was a subject," replied the man in fluent English.\par
  "There's a certain amount of Alpine design, chalet-style building, but I\par
  wouldn't call it Bavarian."\par
  Lesson six, or was It seven? Even If the lie Is based In an aspect of\par
  truth, make sure the person you use it on knows less than you do.\par
  "Alpine, Swiss, Bavarian., They're pretty much the same thing.99\par
  - "Really? I thought there were considerable differences."\par
  Lesson eight or nine. Don't argue. Remember the objective.\par
  "Look, to tell you the trut~ a rich couple in New York are paying my way\par
  here to bring back sketcheL They were in Rio last summer. They rode around\par
  and\par
               82\par
         THE HOLCROFT COVENANT  83\par
\par
 spotted some great homes. 17hey described them as Bavarian.09\par
  'Those would be in the northwest countryside. Ihere are several marvelous\par
  houses out there. The Eisenstat residence, for example; but then, I think\par
  they're Jewish. Tbere's an odd mixture of Moorish, if you can believe it.\par
  And, of course, there~s the Graff mansion. That's almost too much, but it's\par
  really spectacular. To be expected, I imagine. Graffs a millionaire many\par
  times over."\par
  "VAW's the name again? Graff?"\par
  "Maurice Graff. He's an importer; but then, aren!t they allr'\par
  -whort\par
  "Oh, come now, don't be naive, If he wasn't a general, or a muckedy-muck\par
  in the High Command, rll piss port wine."\par
  -You're English.-\par
  "I'm English."\par
  "But you work in a German bookstore."\par
  "Ich spreche gut Deutsch."\par
  "Couldn't they find a Germanr'\par
  "I suppose there are advantages hiring someone like myself," said the\par
  Britisher cryptically.\par
  Noel feigned surprise. "Really?"\par
  "Yes," replied the clerk, scaling another rung on the ladder. "No one asks\par
  me questions."\par
\par
  The clerk watched the American leave and stepped quickly down from the\par
  ladder, sliding it across the shelf track with a shove of his hand. It was\par
  a gesture of accomplishment, of minor triumph. He walked rapidly down the\par
  book-fined aisle and turned so abruptly into an intersecting stack that he\par
  collided with a customer examining a volume of Goethe.\par
  "Verzeihung," said the clerk under his breath, not at all concerned.\par
  -Schwesterchen," said the man with the thick blackand-white eyebrows.\par
  At the reference to his lack of masculinity, the clerk turned. "Youl"\par
  'The friends of Tinamou. are never far away," replied the man.\par
  "You followed him?" asked the clerk.\par
  "He never knew. Make your call."\par
 84 TFIE HOLCROPT COVENANT\par
\par
  ~ Ile Englishman continued on his way to the door of an office at the rear\par
  of the store. He went inside, picked up the telephone, and dialed. It was\par
  answered by the aide of the most powerful -n in Rio.\par
  "Senhor Graff's residence. Good afternoon."\par
  "Our man at the hotel deserves a large tip," said the clerL "He was right.\par
  I insist on talking to Herr Graff. I did precisely as we agreed, and I did\par
  it superbly. I've no doubt he'll be calling. Now, Herr Graff, please."\par
  "rll pass along your message, butterfly," said the aide.\par
  "You'll do no such thingl I have other news rU tell only to him's\par
  "%Ut does it concern? I don't have to tell you he's a busy man.,'\par
  "Shall we say a countryman of mine? Do I make myself clear?"\par
  "We know hes in Rio; he's already made contacL You'll have to do better\par
  than that."\par
  "Hes still here. In the store. He may be waiting to talk to me."\par
  The aide spoke to someone nearby. The words, however, were distinct. "It's\par
  the actor, mein Herr. He insists on speaking to you. Everything went as\par
  scheduled during the past hour, but there seems to be a complication. His\par
  countryman is in the bookshop."\par
  The phone passed hands. "What is it?" asked Maurice Graff.\par
  "I wanted you to know that everything went exactly as we anticipated. . .\par
  ."\par
  "Yes, yes, I understand that," interrupted Graff. "You do excellent work.\par
  Now, what's this about the Engldnder? He's there?"\par
  "He followed the American. He was no more than ten feet from him. Hes\par
  still here, and I expect he'll want me totell him what's happening. Should\par
  I?"\par
  "No," replied Graff. "We are perfectly capable of running things here\par
  without interference. Say to him that were concerned hell be recognized;\par
  that we suggest he remain out of sight. Tell him I do not approve of his\par
  methods..You may say you heard it from me personally."\par
  "Thank you, Herr Graff I It will be a pleasure."\par
  "Yes, I know it will."\par
         THE HOLCROPT COVENANT  85\par
\par
  Graff handed the telephone back to his aide. "Ibe 71namou must not let this\par
  happen," he said. "It starts -again."\par
   "What, meinHerrr,\par
  "All over again," continued the old man. "The interference, the silent\par
  observations, one upon the other. Authority becomes divided, everyone~s\par
  suspect"\par
   "I don't understand."\par
  "Of course you don't. You weren't them" Graff leaned back in his chair.\par
  "Send a second cable to the Tinamou. Tell him that we request he order his\par
  wolf back to the Mediterranean. He's taking too many risks. We object, and\par
  cannot be responsible under the circumstances.09\par
\par
  It took several phone calls and the passage of twenty-four hours, but word\par
  that Graff would see him finally came, shortly past two o'clock the next\par
  afternoon. Holcroft leased a car at the hotel and drove northwest out of\par
  the city. He stopped frequently, studying the tourist map provided by the\par
  rental agency. He finally found the address, and swung through the iron\par
  gates into the ascending drive that led to the house at the top of the\par
  hill. - The road leveled off into a large parking area of white concrete,\par
  bordered by green shrubbery that was broken up by flagstone paths leading\par
  through groves of fruit trees on either side.\par
  The clerk at the bookstore had been , right. The Graff estate was\par
  spectacular. The view was magnificent: plains nearby, mountains in the\par
  distance, and far to the cast the hazy blue of the Atlantic. The house\par
  itself was three stories high. A series of balconies rose on both sides of\par
  the central entrance: a set of massive double doors--oiled mahogany, hinged\par
  with large, pitted triangles of black iron. The effect was Alpine, as if\par
  a geometric design of many Swiss chalets were welded into one and set down\par
  on a tropical mountain.\par
  Neel parked the car to the right of the front steps and got out 'Mere were\par
  two other automobiles in the parking area-a white Mercedes limousine and\par
  a low-slung, red MaseratL The Graff family traveled well. -Holcroft gripped\par
  his attach6 case and camera and started up the marble steps.\par
 86   THE HOLCROFT COVENAM\par
\par
  "Irm, flattered our minor architectural efforts are appreciated," said\par
  Graff. "It's natural, I suppose, for transplanted people to create a touch\par
  of their homeland in new surroundings. My family came from the Schwarzwald.\par
  The memories are never far away."\par
  "I appreciate your having me out here, sir." Noel put the five kastily\par
  drawn sketches back into his attach6 case and closed it "I speak for my\par
  client as well, of course."\par
  "You have everything you need?"\par
  "A roll of film and five elevation sketches are more than I had hoped for.\par
  Incidentally, the gentleman who showed me around will tell you the\par
  photographs were limited to the exterior structural detail."\par
  "I don7t understand you:'\par
  "I wouldn't want you to think I was taking pictures of your private\par
  grounds."\par
  Maurice Graff laughed softly. "My residence is very well protected, Mr.\par
  Holcroft. Besides, it never crossed my mind that you were examining the\par
  premises for purposes of theft. Sit down, please."\par
  '11ank you." Noel sat opposite the old man. 'These days some people might\par
  be suspicious."\par
  "Well, I won't mislead you. I did call the P8rto Alegre Hotel to see if you\par
  were registered. You were. You are a man named Holcroft from New York whose\par
  reservation was made by a reputable travel agency that obviously knows you,\par
  and you use credit cards cleared by computers. You entered Brazil with a\par
  valid passporL What.more did I need? The times are technically too\par
  complicated for a man to pretend to be someone hes not, wouldn7t you\par
  agreer,\par
  "Yes, I guess I would," replied Noel, thinking that it was the moment\par
  perhaps to shift to the real purpose of kis visit He was about to speak,\par
  but Graff continued, as if Sling an awkward silence.\par
  "How long wW you be in Rio?" he asked.\par
  "Only a few more days. I have the name of your architect, and naturally\par
  I'll consult with him when he's free to see me."\par
  "I'll have my secretary telephone; there'll be no de. lay. I have no idea\par
  how such financial arrangements are made--or, indeed, if there are any-but\par
  I'm quite sure bed let you have copies of the plans if they would be\par
  helpft# to you."\par
         THE HOLCROFT COVENANT  87\par
\par
  Noel smiled, the professional in him aroused. "Ifs a question of selective\par
  adaptation, Mr. Graff. My calling him would be as much a matter of courtesy\par
  as anything else. I might ask where certain materials were pu'rchased, or\par
  how specific stress problems were solved, but that'd be it. I wouldn't ask\par
  for the plans, and I think he'd be reluctant to say yes if I did."\par
  "There would be no reluctance," said Graff, his bearing and intensity a\par
  reflection of a military past.\par
  . . . If he wasn't a general, or a muckedy-muck in the High Command, I'll\par
  piss port wine....\par
  "It's not important, sir. I've got what I came for."\par
  "I see." Graff shifted his heavy frame in the chair. It was the movement\par
  of a weary old man toward the end of a long afternoon. Yet the eyes were\par
  not weary; they were strangely alert "An hour's conference would be\par
  sufficient, then?"\par
  "Easily."\par
  "I'll arrange it."\par
  "You're very kind."\par
  'Men you can return to New York."\par
  "Yes." It was the moment to mention the Von Tiebolts. Now. "Actually,\par
  there's one other thing I should do while I'm here in Rio. It's not\par
  terribly important, but I said I'd try. I'm not sure where to begin. The\par
  police, I imagine."\par
  'rbat sounds ominous. A crime?"\par
  "Quite the contrary. I meant whichever department of the police it is that\par
  could help locate some people. They're not in the telephone directory. I\par
  even checked unlisted numbers; they don't have one."\par
  "Are you sure they're in Rio?"\par
  "They were when last heard from. And I gather the other cities in Brazil\par
  were checked out, again through the telephone companies."\par
  "You intrigue me, Mr. Holcroft. Is it so important these people be found?\par
  What did they do? But then you said there was no crime."\par
  "None. I know very little. A friend of mine in New York an attorney, knew\par
  I was coming here and asked me to do what I could to locate this family.\par
  Apparently it was left some money by relatives in the Midwest."\par
  "An inheritance?"\par
  "Yes."\par
 88  THE HOLCROFT COVENANT\par
\par
   'Men perhaps legal counsel here in Rio\par
  "My friend sent what he termed 'inquiries of record! to several law fums\par
  down here," said Noel, remembering the words of the attach6 in New York.\par
  "There weren7t any satisfactory responses."\par
  "How did he explain that?"\par
  "He didn't. He was just annoyed. I guess the money wasn't enough for three\par
  attorneys to got involved."\par
  "Three attorneys?"\par
  "Yes," replied Noel, astonished at himself. He was filling a gap\par
  instinctively, without thinking. "There's the lawyer in Chicago--or St.\par
  Louis-my friend's firm in New York, and the one down here in Rio. I don't\par
  imagine what's confidential to an outsider is confidential between\par
  attorneys. Perhaps splitting a fee three ways wasn't worth the trouble."\par
  "But your friend is a man of conscience." Graff arched his brows in\par
  appreciation. Or something else, Holcroft thought.\par
  "I'd like to think so."\par
  "Perhaps I can help. I have friends."\par
   H-olcroft shook his head. "I couldn't ask you. You've done enough for me\par
   this afternoon. And, as I &'Aid, it's not that important."\par
   "Naturally," said Graff, shrugging. "I wouldn!t care to intrude in\par
   confidential matters." The German looked over at the windows, squinting.\par
   The sun was settling above the western mountains; shafts of orange light\par
   streamed through the glass, adding a rich hue to the dark wood of the\par
   study.\par
   "The name of the family is Von Tiebolt," said Noel, watching the old man's\par
   face. But whatever he expected to find, nothing could have prepared him\par
   for what he saw.\par
   Old Graffs eyes snapped open, their glance shooting over at Holcroft,\par
   filled with loathing. "You are a pig," said the German, his voice so low\par
   it could barely be heard. 'This' was a trick, a devious ruse to come into\par
   my housel To come to mel"\par
   'You're wrong, Mr. Graff. You can Call my client in NewYork...."\par
   "Pigl . . ." the old man screamed. "The Von Tieboltsl Verrfiterl Below\par
   filthl Cowardsl Schweinhundel How dare youl"\par
  Noel watched, mesmerized and helpless. Graffs face\par
         THE BOLCROPT COVENANT  89\par
\par
 was discolored with rage-, the veins in his neck were at the surface of his\par
 flesh, his eyes red and furious, his hands trembling, gripping the arms of\par
 the chair.\par
  "I don't understand," said Holcroft, getting to his feet.\par
  "You understand . . . you garbage! You are looking for the Von Tieboltsl\par
  You want to give them life againl"\par
  6'17hey're dead?"\par
  "Would to the Almighty they werel"\par
  "Graff, listen to me. If you know somethint---"\par
  "Get out of my housel" The old man struggled up from the chair and\par
  screamed at the closed door of the study. "Wernert Komm'herJ"\par
  GraWs aide burst through the door. "Mein Herr? Was ist---~'\par
  "Take this impostor awayl Get him out of my housel"\par
  The aide looked at Holcroft. 'This way. Quicklyl"\par
  Noel reached down for his attach6 case and walked swiftly toward the door.\par
  He stopped and turned to look once more at the enraged Graff. The old\par
  German stood Eke a bloated, grotesque manikin, yet he could not control\par
  his trembling.\par
  "Get outl You are contemptiblel"\par
  Ile final, searing accusation shattered Noel's selfcontrol. It was not he\par
  who was contemptible; it was the figure of arrogance in front of him, this\par
  swollen image of indulgence and brutality. This monster who betrayed, then\par
  destroyed, a man in agony thirty years ago ... and thousands like him.\par
  This Nazi.\par
  "You're in no position to call me names."\par
  "We'll see who , s in what position. Get outf'\par
  "I'll get out, General, or whatever the hell you are. I can't get out fast\par
  enough, because now I understand. You don't know me from the last corpse\par
  you bastards burned, but I mention one name and you can't stand it. You're\par
  torn apart because you know---and I know-that Von Tiebolt saw through you\par
  thirty years ago. When the bodies piled up. He saw what you really were."\par
  "We did not conceal what we werel The world knew. There was no deception\par
  on our partl"\par
  Holcroft stopped and swallowed involuntarily. In his burst of anger, he\par
  had to seek justice for the men who had cried out to him from the grave;\par
  he had to strike back at this symbol of the once-awesome might and do-\par
   go  THE HOLCROFT COVENANT\par
\par
 cay that had stolen a father from him. He could not help himself.\par
  "Get this clear," said Noel. "I'm going to find the Von Tiebolts, and\par
  you're not going to stop me. Don't think you can. Don't think you've got\par
  me marked. You haven't. I've got you marked. For exactly what you are. You\par
  wear your Iron Cross a little too obviously."\par
  Graff had regained control. "Find the Von Tiebolts, by all means. Wc'U be\par
  therel"\par
  I "I'll find them. And when I do, if anything happens to them, I'll know\par
  who did it. I'll brand you for what you are. You sit up here in this\par
  castle' and bark your orders. You're stiff pretending. You were finished\par
  years agobefore the war was over-and men like Von Tiebolt knew it. They\par
  understood, but you never did. You never will."\par
  "Get oud"\par
  A guard raced into the room; hands grabbed Noel from behind. An arm\par
  plunged over his right shoulder and down across his chest. He wa& yanked\par
  briefly off his feet and pulled backward out of the room, He swung his at-\par
  tach6 case and felt the impact on the large, weaving body of the man\par
  dragging him through the door. He rammed his left elbow -into the stomach\par
  of that unseen body and kicked viciously, jabbing his heel into his at-\par
  tacker's shin bone. The response was immediate; the man yelped; the grip\par
  across Noel's chest was momentarily lessened. It was enough.\par
  Holcroft shot his left hand up, grabbing the cloth of the extended arm,\par
  and pulled forward with all his strength. He angled his body to the right;\par
  his right shoulder jammed into the chest that rose behind him. His\par
  assailant stumbled. Noel rammed a last shoulder block into the elevated\par
  chest, throwing his attacker into an antique chair against the wall. Man\par
  and delicate wood met in a crushing impact; the frame of the chair\par
  collapsed under the weight of the body. The guard was stunned, his wide\par
  eyes blinking, his focus temporarily lost.\par
  Holcroft looked down at the man. The guakd was large, but his bulk was the\par
  most threatening part of him. And the bulk was just that; like old Graff,\par
  a mountain of flesh packed under a tight-fitting jacket.\par
  Through the open door Holcroft could see Graff start\par
         TNE HOLCROPT COVENANT  91\par
\par
 for the telephone on his desk. The aide he had called Werner took an awkward\par
 step toward Noel.\par
  "Don't," said Holcroft. He walked across the large hallway toward the\par
  front entrance. On the opposite side of the foyer several men and women\par
  stood in an open archway. None made a move toward him; none even raised\par
  his voice. The German mentality was consistent, thought Noel, not unhappy\par
  with the realization. These minions were awaiting orders.\par
\par
  "Do as I've instructed," said Graff into the telephone, his voice calm,\par
  with no trace of the fury he had exhibited only minutes ago. He was now\par
  the general officer issuing commands to an attentive subordinate. "Wait\par
  until he's halfway down the hill, then throw the gate switch. It's vital\par
  that the American thinks he has escaped." The old German hung up and\par
  turned to his aide. "Is the guard hurt?-\par
  "Merely stunned, mein Herr. He's walking around, shaldn off the effects of\par
  the blow."\par
  "Holcroft is angry," mused Graff. "He's filled with himself, exhilarated,\par
  consumed with purpose. Tbafs good. Now he must be frightened, made to\par
  tremble at the unexpected, at the sheer brutality of the moment. Tell the\par
  guard to wait five minutes and then take up pursuit. He must do his job\par
  well."\par
  "He has his orders; he's an expert marksman."\par
  "Good." The former Wehrmachtsgeneral walked slowly to the window and\par
  squinted into the final rays of the sun. "Soft words, lover's words . . .\par
  and then sharp, hysterical rebukes. The embrace, and the knife One must\par
  follow the other in rapid succession until Holcroft has no judgment left\par
  Until he can no longer distinguish between ally and enemy, knowing only\par
  that he must press forward. When finally he breaks, we'll be there and\par
  hell be ours."\par
               9\par
\par
 Noel slammed the huge door behind him and walked down the marble steps to\par
 the car. He swung the automobile into reverse, so that his hood faced the\par
 downhill drive out of the Graff estate, pressed the accelerator and headed\par
 for the exit.\par
  Several things occurred to him. The first was that the afternoon sun had\par
  descended behind the western mountains, creating pockets of shadows on the\par
  ground. Daylight was disappearing; he needed his headlights. Another\par
  concern was that GrafPs reaction to the mention of the Von Tiebolts, had\par
  to mean two things: The Von Tiebolts were alive, and they were a threat.\par
  But a threat to what? To whom? And where were they?\par
  A third was more of a feeling. than a specific thought. It was his reaction\par
  to the physical encounter he had just experienced. Throughout his life he\par
  had taken whatever size and strength he possessed as a matter of course.\par
  Because he was large and relatively well coordinated, he never felt the\par
  need to seek physical challenge except in competition against himself, in\par
  bettering a tennis game or besting a ski slope. As a result, he avoided\par
  fights; they struck him as unnecessary.\par
  It was this general attitude that had made him laugh when his stepfather\par
  had insisted he join him at the club for a series of lessons in\par
  self-defense. The city was turning into a jungle; Holcroft's son was going\par
  to learn how to protect himself.\par
  He took the course, and promptly forgot everything he had learned when it\par
  was over. If he had actually absorbed anything, he had done it\par
  subconsciously.\par
  He had absorbed something, reflected Noel, pleased with himself. He\par
  remembered the glazed look in the eyes of the guard.\par
  The last thought that crossed his mind as he turned\par
               92\par
         THE HOLCROFT COVENANT  93\par
\par
 into the downhill drive was also vague. Something was wrong with the front\par
 seat of the car. The furious activity of the last minutes had blurred his\par
 usually acute eye for such things, but something about the checkered cloth\par
 of the seat cover bothered him. ...\par
  Terrible sounds interrupted his concentration: the barking of dogs.\par
  Suddenly, the menacing faces of enormous long-haired black shepherds\par
  lunged at the windows on both sides of the car. The dark eyes glistened\par
  with hatred and frustration; the fur-lined, saliva-soaked jaws slapped\par
  open and shut, emitting the shrill, vicious sounds of animals reaching a\par
  quarry but unable to sink their teeth into flesh. It was a pack of attack\par
  dogs-five, six, seven-at all-windows now, their paws scratching against\par
  the glass. An animal leaped up on the hood, its face and teeth against the\par
  windshield.\par
  Beyond the dog, at the base of the hill, Holcroft saw the huge gate\par
  beginrung to move, the movement magmBed in the beams of his headlights. It\par
  was starting the slow arc that would end with its closingl He pressed the\par
  accelerator against the floor, gripped the wheel until his arms were in\par
  pain, and drove at full speed, swerving to his left, through the stone\par
  pillars, missing the steel gate by inches. The dog on the hood flew off to\par
  the right in midair, yelping in shook.\par
  The pack on the hill had pulled up behind the gate in the darkening\par
  twilight. The explanation had to be that a high-frequency whistle---beyond\par
  human ears-had caused them to stop. Perspiring, Noel held the pedal\par
  against the floorboard and sped down the road.\par
  He came to a fork in the countryside. Did he take the right, or the left?\par
  He could not recall; absently he reached for his map on the seat.\par
  That was what had bothered himl The map was no longer them. He took the\par
  left fork, reaching below the seat to see if the map had fallen to the\par
  floor. It had not. It had been removed from the carl\par
  He arrived at an intersection. It was not familiar; or, if it was, the\par
  darkness obscured any familiarity. He turned right, out of instinct,\par
  knowing he had to keep going. He kept the car at high speed, looking for\par
  anything that he could relate to the drive out from Rio. But the darkness\par
  was full now; he saw nothing he remembered. The road made a wide, sweeping\par
  curve to the right and\par
 94    TM HOLCROFT COVENAM\par
\par
 then there was a sharp, steep incline of a hill. He re. called no curve,\par
 remembered no hill. He was lost.\par
  The top of the hill flattened out for approximately a hundred yards. On his\par
  left was a lookout, bordered by a parking area enclosed by a chest-high\par
  wall fronting the cliff. Along the wall were rows of telescopes with round\par
  casings, the type activated by coins. Holcroft pulled over and stopped the\par
  car. There were no other automobiles, but maybe one would come. Perhaps if\par
  he looked around he could get his bearings. He got out of the car and\par
  walked to the wall.\par
  Far below in the distance were the lights of the city. Between the cliff\par
  and the lights, however, there was only darkness. . . . No, not total\par
  darkness; there was a winding thread of light. A road? Noel was next to one\par
  of the telescopes. He inserted a coin and peered through the sight,\par
  focusing on the weaving thread of light he presurnod was a road. It was.\par
  The lights were spaced far apart; they were street lamps6 welcome but out\par
  of place in a path cut out of the Brazilian forests. If he could reach the\par
  beginning of that road. . . . The telescope would move no farther to his\par
  right. Goddalmn itl Where did the road begin? It had to be....\par
  Behind him he beard the sound of an engine racing up the hill he had just\par
  -climbed. Thank Godl He would stop the car, if he had to stand in the\par
  middle of the wed to do it. He ran from the wall, across the concrete,\par
  toward the tarred pavement.\par
  He reached the edge and froze. Ile car lunging over the final, incline into\par
  the lookout area was a white Mercedes limousine. The same car that stood\par
  gleaming in the afternoon sun on top of another hill. Graffs car.\par
  It stopped abruptly, tires screeching. The door opened and a man got out.\par
  In the reflecting spill of the headLghts he was recognizable: Graffs guardl\par
  He reached into his belt. Holcroft stood paralyzed. The man raised a gun,\par
  aiming at him. It was unbelievablel It could not be happeningl\par
  The first gunshot was thunderous; it shook the silence like a sudden\par
  cracking of the earth. A second followed. The road several feet away from\par
  Noel exploded in a spray of rock and dust. Whatever instincts remained be-\par
  yond his paralysis, his disbeftef, commanded him to run,\par
         TIM HOLCROFT COVENANT  95\par
\par
 to save himself. He was going to diel He was about to be killed in a\par
 deserted tourist lookout above the city of Rio de laneirof It was hisanel\par
  His legs were weak; he forced himself to race toward the rented car. His\par
  feet ached, it was the shwigest sensation he had ever felt. Two more\par
  gunshots filled the night, there were two more explosions of ity and\par
  concrete.\par
  He reached the car and fell below the door panel for protection. He reached\par
  up for the handle.\par
  Another gunshot, this one louder, the vibration deafening Accompanying the\par
  detonation was another kind of explosion, one that rang with the violent\par
  smashing of glass. The car's rear window had been blown out.\par
  There was nothing else to dol Holcroft pulled the door open and leaped\par
  inside. In panic he turned the ignition key. The engine roared; his foot\par
  pressed the accelerator against the floor. He Jammed the gearshift into\par
  drive; the car bolted forward in the darkness. He spun the wheel; the car\par
  swerved, narrowly missing impact with the wall, His instincts ordered him\par
  to switch on the headlight& In a blur he saw the downhill road, and in\par
  desperation he aimed for it.\par
  The descent was filled with curves. He took them at bigh speed, sliding,\par
  skidding, barely able to hold the car in control, his arms aching. His\par
  hands were wet with ,Sweat; they kept slipping. Any second he fully\par
  believed he would mush; any moment now he would die in a final exPlosion.\par
  He would never remember how long it took, or precisely how he found the\par
  winding road with the intermittent streetlights, but at last it was there.\par
  A flat surface heading left, heading eaY4 the road into the city.\par
  He was in dense countryside; tall trees and thick forests bordered the\par
  asphalt, loombig up like the sides of an immense canyon.\par
  Two can approached from the opposite direction; he wanted to cry with\par
  relief at the sight of them He was approaching the outskirts of the city.\par
  He was into the suburbs. The streeflights were close together now, and\par
  suddenly there were cars everywhere, turning, blocking, passing. He never\par
  knew he could be so grateful to see traffic.\par
  He came to a traffic light; it was red. He was again grateful-for its\par
  actually being there., and the brief rest it\par
 96     THE HO=OFT COVENAM\par
\par
 brought him. He reached into his shirt pocket for his cigarefteL God, he\par
 wanted a cigarettel\par
  A car pulled alongside him on his left. He stared once more in disbelief.\par
  A man beside the driver-a an he had mver wen before in his life-had rolled\par
  down his window and was raising a pistol. Around the barrel was a\par
  perforated cylinder-a silencer. The unknown\par
 Was Amen the gun at himl\par
  Holcroft recoiled, ducking his head, spinning his neck, yanking the\par
  gearshift, plunging the accelerator to the floor-He heard the terrible spit\par
  and the crash of glass behind him. Ile rented car sprang forward into the\par
  irim tersection. Horns blew crazily; he swerved in front of an approaching\par
  automobile, turning at the last second to avoid a collision.\par
  The cigarette had fallen from his lips, burning a hole in the seat.\par
  He sped into the city.\par
\par
  The telephone was moist and glistening with sweat in Noers hand. "Are you\par
  listening to iner' he shouted.\par
  "Mr. Holcroft, calm down, please." The voice of the attach6 at the American\par
  Embassy was disbelieving. "Well do everything we can. I have the salient\par
  facts and well pursue a diplomatic inquiry as rapidly as possible. However,\par
  it Is past seven o'clock; it'll be difficult reaching people at- this\par
  hour."\par
  "Difficult to reach people? Maybe you didn't hear me. I was damn near\par
  killedl Take a look at that carl The windows were blown outl"\par
  "Wre sending a man over to your hotel to take possession of the vehicle,"\par
  said the attach6 matter-offactly.\par
  "I've got the keys. Have him come up to my room and get thern."\par
  I "Yes, well do that. Stay where you are and well call YOU back."\par
  Ihe attacM hung up. Chrisd The man sounded as if he had just heard from an\par
  irritatmg relative and was anxious to get off the phone so he could go to\par
  dinnerl\par
  Noel was frightened beyond any fear he had ever known. It gripped him and\par
  panicked him and made breathing difficult. Yet in spite of that sickening,\par
  all-\par
           THE HOLCROFT COVENANT  97\par
\par
 pervasive fear, something was happening to him that he did not understand.\par
 A minute part of him was angry, and he felt that anger growing. He did not\par
 want it to grow; he was afraid of it, but he could not stop it. Men had\par
 attacked him and he wanted to strike back.\par
  He had wanted to strike back at Graff, too. He had wanted to call him by\par
  his rightful name: monster, liar, corrupter. ..-Nazi.\par
  Ile telephone rang. He spun around as if it were an alarm, signifying\par
  another attack. He gripped his wrist to steady the trembling and walked\par
  quickly to the bedside table.\par
  "Senhor Holcroft?"\par
  It was not the man at the Embassy. The accent was Latin.\par
  "What is it?"\par
  "I must speak with you. It is very important that I speak with you right\par
  away."\par
  "Who is thisr'\par
  "My name is Cararra. I am in the lobby of your hotel.99\par
  "Cararra? A woman named Cararra called me yesterday."\par
  "My sister. We are together now. We must both speak with you now. May we\par
  come up to your room?"\par
  "Noi rm not seeing anyonel" Ile sounds of the gunshots, the explosions of\par
  concrete and glass-they were all still too sharp in his mind. He would not\par
  be an isolated target\par
  "Senhor, you MUSU"\par
  "I won'd Leave me alone or I'll call the police,"\par
  "They can't help you. We can. We wish to help you. You seek information\par
  about the Von Tiebolts. We have information."\par
  Noes breathing stopped. His eyes strayed to the mouthpiece of the\par
  telephone. It was a trap. The man on the phone was trying to trap him. Yet,\par
  if that were so, why did he announce the trap?\par
  "Who sent you here? Who told you to call me? Was it Graff?"\par
  "Maurice Graff does not talk to people like us. My sister and 1, we are\par
  beneath his contempt."\par
  You are contempdblel Graff hold most Of the world\par
 98    nM HOLCROFT COVENMT\par
\par
 in contempt, thought Holcroft He breathed again and tried to speak calmly.\par
 "I asked you who sent you to meHow do you know I'm interested in the Von\par
 Twbolts?"\par
  "We have friends at Immigration Clerks, not unPortant People. But they\par
  listen; they observe. You will understand when we speak." The Brazilian!s\par
  words suddenly accelerated; the phrases tumbled awkwardly. Too awkwardly\par
  to be studied or rehearsed. "Please, senhor. See us. We have information\par
  and it is information you should have. We want to help. By helping you, we\par
  help ourseives.19\par
  Noers brain raced. Ile lobby of the P6rto Alegre was always- crowded, and\par
  there was a certain truth in the bromide that there was safety in numbers.\par
  If Cararra and his sister really knew something about the Von Tiebolts, he\par
  had to see them. But not in an isolated situation, not alone. He spoke\par
  slowly.\par
  "Stay by the reception desk, at least ten feet in front of it, with both\par
  hands out of your pockets. Have your sister on your left, her right hand\par
  on your arm. III be down in a little while, but not in the elevator. And\par
  you won!t see me first. I'll see you."\par
  He hung up, astonished at himself. Lessons were being learned. They were\par
  basic, no doubt, to those abnormal men who dealt in a clandestine world,\par
  but new to him. Cararra would not have his hand gripped around a gun in\par
  his pocket; his sister--or whoever she waswould not be able to reach into\par
  a purse without his noticing. They would have their attentions on the\par
  doorways, not the elevators, which of course he would use. And he would\par
  know who they were.\par
  He walked out of the elevator in a crowd of tourists. He stood briefly\par
  with them, as if one of the party, and looked at the man and woman by the\par
  front desk. As instructed, CararrWs hands were at his side, his sister's\par
  right hand linked to her brother's arm, as if she were afraid to be set\par
  adrift. And he was her brother; there was a distinct similarity in their\par
  features. Cararra, was in his early thirties, perhaps; his sister, several\par
  years younger. Both dark-skin, hair, eyes. Neither looked at all imposing;\par
  their clothes were neat but inexpensive. They were out of place among the\par
  furs and evening gowns of the hotel's guests, aware of their awkward\par
  status, their faces ernbarrassed, their eyes frightened. Harmless, thought\par
  Hol-\par
           THE HOLCROFT COVENANT  99\par
\par
 croft. Then he realized he was making too fast a judgment.\par
  They sat in a back booth of the dimly lit cocktail lounge, the Cararras\par
  across the table from Noel. Before they'd gone inside, Holcroft had\par
  remembered that the embassy was supposed to call him back. He told the desk\par
  that if the call came, it was to be relayed to him in the lounge. But only\par
  the embassy-no one else.\par
 I "Tell me first how you learned I was looking for the Von Tiebolts," said\par
 Noel after their drinks arrived.\par
  "I told you. A clerk at Immigration. The word was passed discreetly, last\par
  Friday, among the sections, that an American would be coming in asking\par
  about a German family named Von Tiebolt. Whoever took the request was to\par
  call in another, a man from the policia do adminisftWdo. Tbes the secret\par
  police."\par
  "I know what it is. He called himself, a 'translator.' I want to know why\par
  you were told."\par
  "The Von Tiebolts were our friends. Very close friends."\par
  "Where are theyr'\par
  CArarra exchanged a brief look with his sister. The girl spoke.\par
  "Why do you look for themr, she asked.\par
  "I made that clear at Immigration. IVs nothing out of the ordinary. They\par
  were left some money by relatives in the United States."\par
  Brother and, sister again looked at each other, and again the sister spoke.\par
  "Is it a large amount of, money?"\par
  "I don't know," replied Holcroft. "It's a confidential matter. I'm merely\par
  a go-between."\par
  "A what?" Again the brother.\par
  "Un tercero," answered Noel, looking at the woman. "Why were you so\par
  frightened on the telephone yesterday? You left your number, and when I\par
  called you back, you told me I shouldn't have. Why?"\par
  "I made a . . . mistake. My brother said it was a bad mistake. My name, the\par
  telephone number-it was wrong to leave them." ,\par
  . "It would anger the Germans," explained Cararra. "If they were watching\par
  you, intercepting your messages, they would see that we called you. It\par
  would be danger. ous to us."\par
  "If they're watching me now, they.know you're here."\par
 100 THE HOLCROrr COVENANT\par
\par
  "We talked it over," continued the woman. "Vft made our decision; we must\par
  take the risk."\par
   "What risk?"\par
  "The Germans despise us. Among other things, we are Portuguese Jews," said\par
  Cararra.\par
   "They think like that even now?"\par
  "Of course they do. I said we were close to the Von Tiebolts. Perhaps I\par
  could clarify. Johann was my dearest friend; he and my sister were to be\par
  married. The Germans would not permit it."\par
   "Who could stop themr'\par
  "Any number of men. With a bullet in the back of Johanifs head."\par
  "Good Christ, that's crazy1" But it was not crazy, and Holcroft knew it.\par
  He had been a target high in the hills; gunshots still rang in his ears.\par
  "For certain Germans such a marriage would be the final insult," said\par
  Cirarra. "There are those who say the Von 7"iebolts were traitors to\par
  Germany. These people still fight the war three decades later. Great\par
  injustices were done to the Von 1"iebolts here in Brazil . They deserve\par
  whatever can be done for them. Their lives were made most difficult for\par
  causes that should have died years ago-,,\par
  "And you figured I could do something for them? What made you think thatr'\par
  "Because powerful men wanted to stop you; the Germans have a great deal of\par
  influence. Therefore you, too, were a powerful man, someone the Graffs in\par
  Brazil wanted to keep from the Von Tiebolts. To us that meant you intended\par
  no harm to our friends, and if no harm, you meant well. A powerful American\par
  who could help them."\par
  "You say the 'Graffs in Brazil."17hat's Maurice Graff, isn't it? Who is he?\par
  What is he?"\par
  "The worst of the Nazis. He should have been hanged at NUmberg."\par
  "You Anow GraffT' asked the woman, her eyes on Hoicroft.\par
  .1 went out to see him. I used a client in New York as an excuse, said he\par
  wanted me to look over Graffs house. rm an architect. At one point, I\par
  mentioned the Von Tiebolts, and Graff went out of his mind. He began\par
  screaming and ordered me out. When I drove down the hill, a pack of attack\par
  dogs came after the car. Later,\par
\par
}
 